World Bank Document


                                                        CONFORMED COPY

                                                  LOAN NUMBER 3812 PAK

                              Loan Agreement

            (Second Private Sector Energy Development Project)

                                  between

                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                          Dated December 20, 1994

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3812 PAK

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1994, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project; and

      (B)   the Borrower intends to obtain funds from the
following financiers in the following amounts or equivalent
(the Cofinancing Funds) to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in agreements to be entered
into between the Borrower and such financiers (the Cofinancing
Agreements):

      Government of France (France)       -  f50,000,000

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) - $110,000,000;
and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:

      (a)   "MWP" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Water and
Power;

      (b)   "NDFC" means the National Development Finance
Corporation, a body corporate established and existing under
the Borrower’s National Development Finance Corporate Act (No.
XIII) of 1973, as amended from time to time;

      (c)   "WAPDA" means the Water and Power Development
Authority of Pakistan, a body corporate established and
existing under the Borrower’s Water and Power Development
Authority Act (No. XXXI) of 1958, as amended from time to time;

      (d)   "PSO" means the Pakistan State Oil Company Limited;

      (e)   "SBP" means the State Bank of Pakistan;

      (f)   "PED" means NDFC’s Private Energy Division;

      (g)   "PPIB" means the Borrower’s Private Power and
Infrastructure Board;

      (h)   "Fund" means the Borrower’s Long Term Credit Fund
referred to in Section 4.03 of this Agreement;

      (i)   "Administration Agreement" means the administration
agreement between the Borrower and NDFC dated January 14, 1989,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Administration Agreement;

      (j)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of policy
on private sector participation in the energy sector as adopted
and issued by the Borrower in March 1994, as amended from time
to time;

      (k)   "Brochure" means the brochure, referred to in
paragraph B.1 (b) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement, describing
the Borrower’s policies and procedures for evaluating and
approving proposals for private sector participation in the
energy and energy-related infrastructure sector;

      (l)   "Fund Guidelines" means the Borrower’s guidelines
for the operation of the Fund;

      (m)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an



Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;

      (n)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise,
incorporated under the Borrower’s Companies Ordinance (No.
XLVII) of 1984 with at least 51% private sector shareholding,
to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;

      (o)   "Investment Project" means a specific development
project in the energy, or energy-related infrastructure, sector
to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (p)   "Hub Power Project" means the 1292 megawatt
oil-fired power plant located in the Borrower’s province of Balochistan,
being one of the Investment Projects to be financed under PSEDP
and the Project;

      (q)   "APL Pipeline Project" means the oil pipeline to be
built from Port Qasim in the Borrower’s province of Sindh to
Khalifa Point in the Borrower’s province of Balochistan, being
one of the Investment Projects to be financed under the
Project;

      (r)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (s)   "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the
Borrower; and

      (t)   "PSEDP" means the Bank-financed Private Sector
Energy Development Project (Loan No. 2982-PAK).

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of two hundred fifty million
dollars ($250,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan
to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required, and
interest and other charges accrued during construction, for the
Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of consultants’ services and training and
incremental staff costs required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent



(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
      preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
      1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
      this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
      the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
      Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
      such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
      a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III



                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, commercial, engineering and public utility
practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 7 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made in
accordance with procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and

      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, with respect to the APL
Pipeline Project, ensure that, not later than January 31, 1995
or such later date as the Bank may agree, (a) all necessary
governmental consents have been given, (b) the right-of-way has
been acquired, and (c) the security package has received the
necessary governmental approvals, all to the satisfaction of
the Bank.

                                ARTICLE IV

                       Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to monitor the
progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower



responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof
and the operation and financial condition of the Fund and of
each Investment Enterprise.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account and the financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of
                  income and expenses and related statements) of
                  each Investment Enterprise for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                  said financial statements for such year as so
                  audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
                  and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representative to examine
                  such records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall continuously monitor
and evaluate the application of the policies set forth in the
Statement of Policy and related documents, and shall, not later
than June 30, 1996, modify and refine such policies taking into
account the views of the Bank.

      (b)   As part of this monitoring and evaluation, the
Borrower shall review: (i) its policy of exempting the energy
and energy-related infrastructure sector from corporate income
tax; and (ii) the feasibility of rolling over and capitalizing
customs duties, the education levy (Iqra) and import taxes,
during the construction phase, and of recovering these during



the operation phase, of projects.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1995, reconstitute its Private Sector Energy Development Fund
as an autonomous, commercially-oriented Loan Term Credit Fund,
and appoint a board of directors and managing director for it,
all to the satisfaction of the Bank.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   For as long as NDFC shall be required to carry out
its responsibilities under paragraph A.3 (a) of Schedule 7 to
this Agreement:

            (i)   NDFC shall have failed to perform any of its
                  obligations under the Administration Agreement;
                  or

           (ii)   as a result of events which have occurred after
                  the date of the Loan Agreement, an
                  extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
                  shall make it improbable that NDFC will be able
                  to perform its obligations under the Administration
                  Agreement; or

          (iii)   the NDFC Act shall have been amended,
                  suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
                  to affect materially and adversely the ability
                  of NDFC to perform any of its obligations under
                  the Administration Agreement; or

           (iv)   the Borrower or any other authority having
                  jurisdiction shall have taken any action for
                  the dissolution or disestablishment of NDFC or
                  for the suspension of its operations.

      (b)   The Statement of Policy shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry
out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.

      (c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any of the Cofinancing Funds
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                        to the terms of the agreement providing
                        therefor, or

                  (B)   any loan included in the Cofinancing Funds
                        shall have become due and payable prior to
                        the agreed maturity thereof.

           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                  under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                  for the Project are available to the Borrower
                  from other sources on terms and conditions
                  consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                  under this Agreement.



      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower;

      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) (iii), (a)
(iv) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

      (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Cofinancing Agreements, other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled;

      (b)   the Fund Guidelines have been modified, pursuant to
paragraph B.2 (a) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement, to permit
the use of the proceeds of the Loan and, to the extent allowed
under the agreements providing therefor, of the Cofinancing
Funds forming part of the Fund for financing interest and other
charges accrued on Sub-loans during construction of the
Investment Projects for which the Sub-loans shall be made; and

      (c)   the application of the Statement of Policy has been
extended to the energy-related infrastructure sector so as to
enable the Borrower to perform its obligations under the
provisions of paragraphs A.1 and A.3 of the Annexure to
Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The date thirty (30) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VII

                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of
Pakistan, Economic Affairs and Statistics Division, or any Additional
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer
in that Division of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Economic Affairs and Statistics Division
            Government of Pakistan
            Islamabad
            Pakistan

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  ECONOMIC                      ECD IV-05-634
                  Islamabad



      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                  By /s/ Agha Ghazanfar
                                                Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                               South Asia

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated              % of
                               (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1) Sub-loans
    co-financed
    with JEXIM:

    (a) Works                     39,000,000          35%

    (b) Equipment                 49,000,000          50% of foreign
                                                      expenditures and
                                                      50% of local
                                                      expenditures (ex-
                                                      factory cost)

    (c) All risks                  8,000,000          50% of foreign
        and marine                                    expenditures
        insurance



(2) Other Sub-loans:

    (a) Works                      41,000,000         70%

    (b) Equipment                  82,000,000         100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures and
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory cost)

                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated              % of
                               (Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed

(3) Interest and                  25,000,000           100% of such
    other charges on                                   interest and
    Sub-loans accrued                                  charges accrued
    during the con-                                    on the amounts of
    struction of                                       Sub-loans financed
    Investment Projects                                out of the pro-
                                                       ceeds of the Loan

(4) Institution
    building:

    (a) Consultants’               2,000,000           100%
        services and
        training

    (b) Equipment and              1,000,000           100% of foreign
        materials                                      expenditures;
                                                       100% of local
                                                       expenditures (ex-
                                                       factory cost); and
                                                       70% of other items
                                                       procured locally

    (c) Incremental                 3,000,000          90% until December
        staff costs                                    31, 1995; and 80%
                                                       from January 1
                                                       through December
                                                       31, 1996
                                  ___________

        TOTAL                     250,000,000
                                  ===========

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and

    (c)   the term "incremental staff costs" means the salaries
and allowances of staff appointed to positions created in PPIB
after June 30, 1994 and engaged on a full time basis for the
purposes of the Project.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

    (a)   a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and



    (b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $350,000, may be made under
Category (4) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after June 30, 1994.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect of Part B of the Project to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, for consultants’
services under contracts not exceeding $100,000, in the case of
firms, and $50,000, in the case of individuals, and for all
training and incremental staff costs, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to continue to
assist the Borrower in mobilizing the additional resources required
to develop the energy sector through the participation of the
private sector; and (b) to build on the institutional and
policy framework established by the Borrower to facilitate the
participation of the private sector in the energy sector.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Investment Projects

    Financing of specific development projects through
Sub-loans to private enterprises in the energy and energy-related
infrastructure sector.

Part B:   Institution Building

    Provision of technical and other assistance for: (1)
strengthening PPIB; and (2) formulating an operational framework for
making, and making, the Fund fully operational as an
autonomous, commercially-oriented financial institution,
providing long term credit for energy and related
infrastructure projects.

                                 *   *   *

         The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1999.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                         Payment of Principal
 Date Payment Due                       (expressed in dollars)*

August 1, 2000                                4,805,000
February 1, 2001                              4,975,000
August 1, 2001                                5,150,000
February 1, 2002                              5,335,000
August 1, 2002                                5,520,000
February 1, 2003                              5,720,000
August 1, 2003                                5,920,000
February 1, 2004                              6,130,000
August 1, 2004                                6,350,000
February 1, 2005                              6,575,000
August 1, 2005                                6,810,000
February 1, 2006                              7,050,000
August 1, 2006                                7,300,000
February 1, 2007                              7,560,000
August 1, 2007                                7,830,000



February 1, 2008                              8,105,000
August 1, 2008                                8,395,000
February 1, 2009                              8,690,000
August 1, 2009                                9,000,000
February 1, 2010                              9,320,000
August 1, 2010                                9,650,000
February 1, 2011                              9,995,000
August 1, 2011                               10,345,000
February 1, 2012                             10,715,000
August 1, 2012                               11,095,000
February 1, 2013                             11,490,000
August 1, 2013                               11,895,000
February 1, 2014                             12,320,000
August 1, 2014                               12,755,000
February 1, 2015                             13,200,000

_____________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                  The interest rate (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum) applicable
                                  to the Loan on the day of
                                  prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                      0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                      0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                        0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                     0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not                     0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before                      1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                  Modifications of the General Conditions

    For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:

    (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

    (2)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
    which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be



    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

    (3)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set
forth at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following
is substituted therefor:

          "or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 5 (b) of
    Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect
    of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no
    applications or requests under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of
    said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications or
    requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate
    the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or
    requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as
    the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of
    the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or
    portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."

                                SCHEDULE 5

                 Procedures for, and Terms and Conditions
                               of, Sub-loans

A.  Terms and Conditions

1.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the terms and
conditions of each Sub-loan shall be:

    (a)   Interest rate:

          (i)   in the case of the Sub-loan for the Hub Power
                Project;

                (aa)  during the construction of the Investment
                      Project for which the Sub-loan has been
                      made, a fixed rate of 14% per annum;

                (bb)  after completion of construction of such
                      Investment Project but before all loans
                      other than the Sub-loan for the Investment
                      Project which are senior to the Sub-loan
                      have been repaid, a variable rate, to be
                      reviewed annually, equal to the greater of
                      (x) the sum of the prevailing one-year
                      United States (US) Treasury bond rate plus
                      the FERI Margin plus a spread of 300 basis
                      points, and (y) the sum of the prevailing
                      World Bank Lending Rate plus the FERI Margin
                      plus a spread of 250 basis points; and

                (cc)  after repayment of such senior loans and
                      until the Sub-loan has been fully repaid, a
                      variable rate, to be reviewed annually,
                      equal to the greater of (x) the sum of the
                      prevailing one-year United States (US)
                      Treasury bond rate plus the FERI Margin plus
                      a spread of 400 basis points, and (y) the
                      sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending
                      Rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of
                      350 basis points.

          (ii)  in the case of all other Sub-loans:

                (aa)  during the construction of the Investment
                      Project for which the Sub-loan has been
                      made, a fixed rate equal to the greater of
                      (x) the sum of the prevailing five-year



                      United States (US) Treasury bond rate plus a
                      spread of 200 basis points, and (y) the sum
                      of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate
                      plus a spread of 150 basis points;

                (bb)  after completion of construction of such
                      Investment Project but before all loans
                      other than the Sub-loan for the Investment
                      Project which are senior to the Sub-loan
                      have been repaid, a variable rate, to be
                      reviewed annually, equal to the greater of
                      (x) the sum of the prevailing one-year
                      United States (US) Treasury bond rate plus a
                      spread of 300 basis points, and (y) the sum
                      of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate
                      plus a spread of 250 basis points; and

                (cc)  after repayment of such senior loans and
                      until the Sub-loan has been fully repaid, a
                      variable rate, to be reviewed annually,
                      equal to the greater of (x) the sum of the
                      prevailing one-year United States (US)
                      Treasury bond rate plus a spread of 400
                      basis points, and (y) the sum of the
                      prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus a
                      spread of 350 basis points.

         (iii)        For the purposes of this provision:

                (aa)  "FERI Margin" shall mean the premium
                      percentage (as quoted by SBP under its
                      Foreign Exchange Rate Insurance (FERI)
                      Program) prevailing for one-year dollar
                      exchange rate insurance for rupees. In the
                      event SBP no longer provides quotes for
                      insurance under its FERI Program, the FERI
                      Margin shall be calculated based on the
                      premium percentage quotes by the National
                      Bank of Pakistan (or such other financial
                      institution mutually designated by the
                      parties to the Sub-loan) prevailing for one-
                      year dollar exchange rate insurance for
                      rupees.

                (bb)  "World Bank Lending Rate" shall mean the
                      rate as defined in Section 2.05 (a) of this
                      Agreement.

                      (b)   Amortization           up to 23 years,
                            period:                including a grace
                                                   period of up to 8
                                                   years

                      (c)   Principal              (i) in the case of
                            amount to              the Sub-loan for
                            be repaid:             the Hub Power
                                                   Project, the aggre-
                                                   gate equivalent of
                                                   the amounts in
                                                   various currencies
                                                   withdrawn from
                                                   the Loan Account
                                                   expressed in rupees
                                                   determined as of
                                                   the respective
                                                   dates of with-
                                                   drawal; and (ii)
                                                   in the case of all
                                                   other Sub-loans,
                                                   the aggregate
                                                   equivalent of the
                                                   amounts in various



                                                   currencies with-
                                                   drawn from the Loan
                                                   Account, calculated
                                                   in dollars as of
                                                   the respective
                                                   dates of withdrawal
                                                   and expressed in
                                                   rupees determined
                                                   as of the respec-
                                                   tive dates of
                                                   repayment

2.  The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) the annual review of
interest rates required to be carried out under paragraph 1(a)
above, in respect of Sub-loans for Investment Projects which
have become operational, will be carried out, in consultation
with the Bank, not later than April 30 of each year; and (b)
any adjustment of such interest rates following such reviewwill be made with effect 
from July 1 of such year and will be
automatically reflected in the tariff charged by such
Investment Projects for subsequent sales of electricity to
WAPDA and the Karachi Electric Supply Company (KESC).

3.  The Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds of the
intermediation spread charged on Sub-loans will be utilized as
follows: (a) 25 basis points to be made available to PPIB to
cover the cost of its services under the Project; and (b) the
remainder to be retained by the Fund for purposes of its future
lending operations.

B.  Procedures

4.  No expenditures for goods or works required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless the Sub-loan for such Investment
Project shall have been approved by the Bank and such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the
application and information required under paragraph 4 (a) of
this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan.

5.  (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

    (b)   Applications made pursuant to the provisions of sub-
paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank
on or before June 30, 1998.

6.  Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or
by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including the right
to:

    (a)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project: (i) with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial,
commercial, public utility and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records; and (ii) without limitation upon the
foregoing and to the extent relevant, in accordance with the
provisions of Part B of, and the Annexure to, Schedule 7 to
this Agreement;

    (b)   require that: (i) the goods and works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance



with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (ii)
such goods and works shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project;

    (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;

    (d)   require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace
or repair such goods;

    (e)   obtain all such information as the Borrower and the
Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from
the Investment Project; and

    (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure
by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under
its contract with the Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 6

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:    International Competitive Bidding

    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines),
and in accordance with the following additional procedures:

    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original
bid validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank’s prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part E.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bank’s prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.

    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use, and shall cause
Investment Enterprises to use, the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents



have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use, and shall
cause Investment Enterprises to use, bidding documents based on
other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.

Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors

    In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, a margin of preference
may be granted to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.  Equipment available from a limited number of sources and
all risks and marine insurance may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list
of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2.  Equipment and works estimated to cost up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $29,000,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded: (i) with due attention to
considerations of economy and efficiency; (ii) in accordance
with sound commercial practices acceptable to the Bank; and
(iii) in accordance with procedures which meet the requirements
of paragraphs 1.4 and 1.5 of the Guidelines; provided, however,
that, with respect to each Investment Project for which such
equipment and works are required, no such contract shall be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan if it
shall have been awarded to suppliers and/or contractors who are
also the sponsors or shareholders of the Investment Enterprise
carrying out the Investment Project.

3.  Equipment and materials required for Part B of the Project
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

    (a)   With respect to each contract financed out of a Sub-
loan and estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or
more, and each contract under Part B of the Project estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3



and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 8
to this Agreement.

    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.

2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.  In order to assist the Borrower in (a) appraising,
approving
and supervising Investment Projects, and (b) carrying out Part
B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be
employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                                SCHEDULE 7

                          Implementation Program

A.  Project Implementation Arrangements

1.  Private Power and Infrastructure Board (PPIB)

    (a)   PPIB shall be responsible for all policy and
regulatory
aspects of the Borrower’s dealings with the private sector for
the purposes of PSEDP and the Project, including in particular
for: (i) evaluating and approving proposals submitted by the
private sector for energy and related infrastructure
development projects; and (ii) negotiating agreements with the



private sector relating to such projects. In carrying out its
responsibilities, PPIB shall be assisted in any way necessary
by all relevant departments and agencies of the Borrower,
including WAPDA, PSO, SBP and NDFC.

    (b)   PPIB shall also be assisted by consultants appointed
under the Project, inter alia, in outlining PPIB’s structure,
staff profile and financial and performance framework.

2.  Long Term Credit Fund (the Fund)

    (a)   The Fund shall be responsible for all financing
aspects of the Borrower’s dealings with the private sector for the
purposes of PSEDP and the Project, including in particular for
appraising, approving, and supervising the implementation of
Investment Projects.

    (b)   The Fund shall undertake the preparation of its
operational framework under Part B (2) of the Project. To that
end, the Fund shall (i) not later than September 30, 1995,
appoint consultants, with expertise in financial management,
accounting and investment banking, pursuant to paragraph 1 (b)
of Section II of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, and (ii) not
later than June 30, 1996, review with the Bank the
recommendations of such consultants and agree on a timetable,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of said
recommendations as shall be acceptable to the Bank.

3.  National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC)

    (a)   Until such time as the Fund shall have become fully
operational under Part B (2) of the Project, NDFC shall
continue to be responsible for administering the Fund, and for
appraising, approving and supervising the implementation of
Investment Projects, on the terms and conditions, including the
fee to be paid to NDFC for this purpose, set forth in the
Administration Agreement.

    (b)   NDFC shall carry out these responsibilities through
the Private Energy Division (PED). PED shall be assisted, as
necessary, by the consultants employed for this purpose
pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of Section II of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement, with expertise in project appraisal, engineering and
supervision, and in investment banking.

B.  Investment Projects

1.  Evaluation and Approval Criteria for Investment Projects

    (a)   The Borrower shall not approve any proposal for an
Investment Project unless the Borrower and the Bank are
satisfied:

          (i)   that the price per unit of the energy produced by
                the Investment Project shall be:

                (aa)  in the case of power, not more than the
                      avoidable cost, being the incremental cost
                      that would be incurred by the Borrower in
                      generating an additional unit of electricity;

                (bb)  in the case of coal, equal to or less than
                      the economic cost of supply (the long run
                      marginal cost), expressed in terms of
                      thermal equivalency; and

                (cc)  in the case of gas, less than the cost,
                      insurance, freight (c.i.f.) price of fuel
                      oil, expressed in terms of thermal
                      equivalency;

         (ii)   that, if the Investment Project is an energy-



                related infrastructure project, its tariff shall
                be set at a level sufficient to cover principal
                and interest on foreign and local loans, fixed
                and variable operation and maintenance (O&M)
                costs, insurance costs, wages, salaries, benefits
                and mandatory social contributions, development
                costs, fuel costs and a 25% return on equity
                after tax;

        (iii)   that the Investment Enterprise sponsoring the
                Investment Project shall be able to arrange
                financing for the Investment Project on a limited
                recourse basis; and

         (iv)   that the Investment Project is technically,
                economically and financially viable.

    (b)   The Borrower shall continue to make available, for the
use of Investment Enterprises, a brochure, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, inter alia, describing the
policy and incentive framework for private sector participation
in the energy and energy-related infrastructure sector
(including the measures set forth or referred to in the
Annexure to this Schedule), setting out the guidelines for the
preparation, evaluation and approval of proposals for
Investment Projects and including models of the Implementation
and Purchase Agreements referred to in Parts C (ii) (a) and (b)
of the Annexure to this Schedule.

2.  Appraisal, Approval and Supervision of Investment Projects

    (a)   The Fund shall continue to use its operational
guidelines, including the guidelines for the appraisal,
approval and supervision of Investment Projects, issued under
PSEDP (the Fund Guidelines), subject to such modifications
thereof as shall be required to be made under Part B (2) of the
Project and considered appropriate by the Borrower and the
Bank.

    (b)   With respect to each Investment Project, the Fund
shall, subject to the Fund Guidelines:

          (i)   require the Investment Enterprise sponsoring the
                Investment Project to prepare a detailed
                feasibility study covering matters including:
                (aa) suitability of site; (bb) availability of
                inputs; (cc) appropriateness of, and proven
                experience with, the technology offered; (dd)
                project design; (ee) arrangements for detailed
                engineering; (ff) cost estimates; (gg)
                construction and procurement arrangements; (hh)
                arrangements for operation and maintenance; (ii)
                arrangements for compliance with environmental
                and resettlement standards; (jj) financial
                viability of the Investment Project; (kk)
                adequacy of the proposed financing and the
                incentives to be offered to attract such
                financing, including the contractual arrangements
                to be made therefor; and (ll) the corporate
                structure of the Investment Enterprise; and

         (ii)   review such feasibility study and, on the basis
                thereof, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its
                review and approval, pursuant to paragraph 4 (a)
                of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, a comprehensive
                appraisal report on the Investment Project.

3.  Financing of Investment Projects

    (a)   For the purposes of financing Investment Projects,
the Borrower shall use the Fund, into which the proceeds of the
Loan and of the Cofinancing Funds shall be placed.



    (b)   The Fund shall provide financing for each Investment
Project, including the Sub-loan approved for such Investment
Project, in amounts sufficient to cover up to 30% of the total
cost of such Investment Project on terms and conditions
including those set forth in Part A of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement; provided, however, that, in exceptional cases and
with the prior approval of the Bank, such limit may be
increased to 40% of the total cost of each Investment Project.

    (c)   The financing required for each Investment Project,
in addition to the financing provided by the Fund, shall be
provided by the Investment Enterprise sponsoring such
Investment Project through equity investment sufficient to
cover at least 20% of the cost of the Investment Project and at
least 40% of the cost of the Investment Project through
commercial loans and/or export credits raised without the
Borrower’s guarantee. To attract such financing, the Borrower
shall take or cause to be taken, with respect to each
Investment Project, the measures described in the Annexure to
this Schedule.

4.  Implementation of Investment Projects

    With respect to each Investment Project, the Fund shall
require the Investment Enterprise sponsoring such Investment
Project to engage:

    (a)   engineering services satisfactory to the Bank for the
preparation of detailed designs and bidding documents and
super- vision of project implementation; and

    (b)   financial services satisfactory to the Bank for the
preparation of proposals for and assistance in mobilizing
project financing.

5.  Environmental Standards for Investment Projects

    Each Investment Project shall comply with the standards set
forth in the Bank’s "Environmental Guidelines" dated September
1988 and the Bank’s "Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines"
dated September 1988 or other more stringent standards as shall
be found acceptable by the Bank. To that end, the Borrower
shall:

    (a)   specify such standards in the Brochure;

    (b)   require each Investment Enterprise applying for a
Sub-loan to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank, showing that the Investment Project in respect of which
the application has been made would comply with such standards,
such evidence to include an environmental impact assessment
and, where applicable, a resettlement plan for displaced
populations, for such Investment Project; and

    (c)   in respect of each Investment Project, include both
in the Letter of Support or Letter of Intent referred to in Part
C (i) of the Annexure to this Schedule and the Implementation
Agreement referred to in Part C (ii) (a) of the Annexure to
this Schedule a suitable provision obligating the Investment
Enterprise sponsoring such Investment Project to ensure
compliance with such standards.

C.  Progress Reports

    Pursuant to Section 9.07 (a) (iii) of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Bank, within thirty days of the end of each quarter, a
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the
progress of the Project and each Investment Project during such
quarter.



                             Annexure to Schedule 7

           Measures Referred to in Paragraph 7 (c) of Schedule 7
                to this Agreement to Attract Financing for
                            Investment Projects

A.  Incentives for Investment Enterprises

1.  With respect to each Investment Project, the Borrower
shall, pursuant to the Statement of Policy, permit the Investment
Enterprise sponsoring such Investment Project:

    (a)   to charge a tariff determined in accordance with the
          relevant provisions of paragraphs B.1 (a) (i) and (ii)
          of this Schedule;

    (b)   (i) to repatriate its initial capital investment,
          profits and debt service payments under arrangements
          with SBP; and (ii) to be compensated, and shall make
          suitable arrangements for the Investment Enterprise to
          be compensated, for loss of profits, initial capital
          investment and capital appreciation resulting from the
          failure of any of the Borrower’s institutions to
          perform their obligations owed to the Investment
          Enterprise or the occurrence of a political event,
          whose causes are beyond the control of the Investment
          Enterprise, involving the Borrower;

    (c)   to adjust the price of energy produced or services
          provided by the Investment Project in accordance with
          agreed adjustment indices to reflect changes in prices
          of inputs and exchange rate movements, but not
          necessarily so as to reflect changes in any other costs
          of the Investment Project;

    (d)   to take appropriate measures to off-set the effects of
          any changes in duties and taxes and other actions taken
          by the Borrower or its agencies affecting the cost and
          price of energy produced or services provided by the
          Investment Project as previously agreed with the
          Borrower;

    (e)   to receive additional finance from the Fund, on terms
          and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, so as to
          enable the Investment Enterprise: (a) to meet up to 80%
          of any additional financing needs of the Investment
          Project arising from an increase in the costs thereof,
          provided the Investment Enterprise finances at least
          20% of such needs through equity investment; and (b) to
          continue to meet its debt service payments in respect
          of the Investment Project in the event of delay in the
          completion of construction or the suspension of
          operations of the Investment Project resulting from
          causes beyond the control of the Investment Enterprise;
          and

    (f)   to enter into arrangements under which the commercial
          loans and/or export credits obtained for the purposes
          of the Investment Project shall have priority over the
          financing obtained from the Fund for such purposes in
          the allocation and distribution of funds available with
          the Investment Enterprise for purposes of making debt-
          service payments and/or meeting obligations arising in
          the event of liquidation.

2.  With a view to facilitating the determination and
adjustment, pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 1 (a) and
(c) above, of the price of electricity produced by Investment
Projects in the power sector, the Borrower shall, having,
pursuant to the Statement of Policy, as of January 1, 1994, set
the bench-mark tariff based on the avoidable cost (as defined
in paragraph B.1 (a)(i)(aa) of this Schedule) for the purchase



of electricity at high voltage from the private power sector at
the equivalent of $0.065 per kilowatt hour (kWh):

    (a)   review such tariff once every six months, taking into
account changes in the cost of commercial borrowing, foreign
exchange risk cover, operation and maintenance (O&M) and fuel,
and, to that end, continue to provide an explicit outline of
the indices to be used for such adjustment, with an explanation
of the methodology used for deriving such indices and the
approach to be adopted for their application;

    (b)   in particular, ensure that the return on the
investment component of the price of electricity produced by the private
power sector shall be indexed to annually compensate for the
depreciation of the rupee relative to the dollar; and

    (c)   ensure that any taxes, duties and levies imposed on
the private power sector shall be reflected as pass-through items
in the price of electricity produced by such sector and
collected from consumers.

3.  With a view to facilitating the determination and
adjustment, pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 1 (a) and
(c) above, of the tariff for non-tradable energy products,
other than electricity, produced by Investment Projects in the
energy sector, and services provided by Investment Projects in
the energy-related infrastructure sector, the Borrower shall:

    (a)   review such tariff once every six months, taking into
account changes in the cost of commercial borrowing, foreign
exchange risk cover, operation and maintenance (O&M) and fuel,
and, to that end, continue to provide an explicit outline of
the indices to be used for such adjustment, with an explanation
of the methodology used for deriving such indices and the
approach to be adopted for their application;

    (b)   in particular, ensure that the return on the
investment component of the price of such products and services
produced or provided by the private energy and energy-related
infrastructure sector shall be indexed to annually compensate
for the depreciation of the rupee relative to the dollar; and

    (c)   ensure that any taxes, duties and levies imposed on
the private energy and energy-related infrastructure sector shall
be reflected as pass-through items in the price of such
products and services, and collected from consumers.

B.  Incentives for Lenders/Creditors

    With respect to each Investment Project, the Borrower shall
require the Investment Enterprise sponsoring such Investment
Project:

          (i)   to assign, as necessary, to its lenders/creditors
                the performance guarantee furnished to the
                Investment Enterprise by the main contractor
                responsible for implementing the Investment
                Project, to which such lenders/creditors shall
                have recourse in the event of delay in the
                implementation of the Investment Project;

         (ii)   to provide for its lenders/creditors to have
                recourse also to the assets of the Investment
                Project;

        (iii)   to assign to its lenders/creditors the
                performance guarantee furnished to the Investment
                Enterprise by the operator (if other than the
                Investment Enterprise itself) of the Investment
                Project, to which such lenders/creditors shall
                have recourse in the event of a shortfall in the
                performance of the Investment Project; and



         (iv)   to establish, and shall enable the Investment
                Enterprise to establish, either at the outset of
                the financing arrangements for, or at the time of
                the commissioning of, the Investment Project,
                debt service escrow accounts, which shall at all
                times hold sufficient funds to meet debt service
                payments in respect of the Investment Project and
                other such escrow amounts as shall be required by
                the lenders/creditors and approved by the
                Borrower.

C.  Contractual Framework for Incentives

    In order to clearly lay down the mutual rights and
obligations of the Borrower, the Investment Enterprise and the
latter’s lenders/creditors, the Borrower shall with respect to
each Investment Project:

          (i)   before the Investment Enterprise is required to
                prepare and submit a detailed feasibility study
                for the Investment Project, issue to the
                Investment Enterprise a Letter of Support or
                Letter of Intent, in form and substance
                satisfactory to the Bank, conveying the
                Borrower’s approval of the proposal for the
                Investment Project and indicating the Borrower’s
                willingness to offer the incentives described in
                Part A of this Annexure; and

         (ii)   at appropriate stages following approval by the
                Borrower of the detailed feasibility study for
                the Investment Project, require the Investment
                Enterprise to enter into the following
                agreements, each in form and substance
                satisfactory to the Bank:

                (a)   an Implementation Agreement with the
                      Borrower, superseding the Letter of Intent
                      referred to in (i) above and setting forth
                      the obligations of the Investment Enterprise,
                      particularly with respect to the
                      financing, design, construction, and
                      operation and maintenance of the Investment
                      Project within mutually agreed parameters
                      and to mutually acceptable standards and
                      including the obligation to offer the
                      incentives described in Part B of this
                      Annexure, and the obligations of the
                      Borrower, particularly with respect to the
                      incentives described in Part A of this
                      Annexure;

                (b)   a Purchase Agreement with WAPDA or any other
                      purchaser of the energy produced or services
                      provided by the Investment Project,
                      guaranteed by the Borrower and setting forth
                      the obligations of the Investment
                      Enterprise, particularly with respect to the
                      operation of the Investment Project to
                      mutually acceptable standards, and the
                      obligations of the purchaser, particularly
                      with respect to the purchase of a guaranteed
                      minimum of the energy produced or services
                      provided by the Investment Project, the
                      purchase price of such energy or services,
                      and the adjustment of such price as provided
                      for pursuant to Part A.1 (c) of this
                      Annexure;

                (c)   a Construction Agreement with the main
                      contractor responsible for the construction



                      and commissioning of the Investment Project,
                      as approved by the Bank and including a
                      performance guarantee furnished by the
                      contractor;

                (d)   an Operation and Maintenance Agreement with
                      the operator (if other than the Investment
                      Enterprise itself) of the Investment
                      Project, approved by the Borrower and
                      setting forth the obligations of the
                      operator, particularly with respect to the
                      operation of the Investment Project to the
                      standards specified in the Implementation
                      Agreement referred to in (a) above and in
                      the Purchase Agreement referred to in (b)
                      above, and including a performance guarantee
                      furnished by the operator;

                (e)   in the energy sector, a Fuel Supply
                      Agreement, to the extent relevant, with the
                      supplier of fuel required by the Investment
                      Project, guaranteed by the Borrower and
                      setting forth the obligations of the
                      supplier, particularly with respect to the
                      quality, quantity and frequency of supplies,
                      and the penalties for inadequate performance
                      of such obligations; and

                (f)   other agreements, including a Shareholders’
                      Agreement (setting forth the rights and
                      obligations of the shareholders of the
                      Investment Enterprise), a Loan Agreement or
                      Agreements (setting forth the obligations of
                      the Investment Enterprise towards its
                      lenders/creditors, particularly with respect
                      to the assignment to the latter of the
                      performance guarantees furnished by the main
                      contractor and the operator of the
                      Investment Project pursuant to Parts B (i)
                      and (iii) of this Annexure), and an Escrow
                      Agreement (establishing and providing for a
                      debt service escrow and other escrow
                      accounts pursuant to Part B (iv) of this
                      Annexure).

                                SCHEDULE 8

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Investment Projects and for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General



Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$10,000,000.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
determined by the Bank to be required to pay for eligible
expenditures during the four months following the date of each
request, which amount shall not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Bank shall have determined to be so
required.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant
                  to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                  or payments in respect of which replenishment
                  is requested. On the basis of each such
                  request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                  deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                  the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                  have been shown by said documents and other
                  evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                  Account for eligible expenditures. All such
                  deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                  the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                  Categories, and in the respective equivalent
                  amounts, as shall have been justified by said
                  documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the



right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund
to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.