World Bank Document


                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                             LOAN NUMBER 3745 PH

                              Loan Agreement

                       (Subic Bay Freeport Project)

                                  between

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                                    and

                     SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN AUTHORITY

                            Dated June 3, 1994

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3745 PH

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the "Bank") and SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN
AUTHORITY (the "Borrower").

      WHEREAS (A): The Republic of the Philippines (the "Guarantor") and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

      WHEREAS (B): By an agreement (the "Guarantee Agreement") of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to
undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
and

      WHEREAS (C): The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement.

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
            any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
            3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:

      (a)   "By-laws" means the Borrower’s corporate by-laws as adopted by
the Borrower’s Board of Directors pursuant to its Resolution No. 93-060,
dated July 27, 1993;

      (b)   "Ecology Center" means the Center established by the Borrower,
pursuant to Section 10 (j) of the Borrower’s Rules and Regulations (as
referred to in Paragraph (i) hereinafter) for the adoption and
implementation of measures and standards for environmental pollution control
of all areas under the Borrower’s jurisdiction;

      (c)   "Environmental Management Plan" means the Plan, to be adopted
by the Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, setting
forth the minimum standards for managing the environmental protection of all
land and sea areas under the Borrower’s jurisdiction, which Plan is referred
to in Sections 4.08 and 7.01 (a) of this Agreement;

      (d)   "Environment Procedures Manual" means the Manual, adopted by the
Borrower pursuant to its Resolution No. 94-013, dated April 6, 1994, setting
forth the modalities and procedures for implementing the environmental
standards, policies and regulations of the Borrower, which Manual is
referred to in Section 4.08 of this Agreement;

      (e)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding
to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1
and ends on December 31 in each calendar year;

      (f)   "Freeport Status" means the Borrower’s legal status and related
incentives regime establishing the Borrower as a separate customs territory
for the free flow and movement of goods and capital within, into and
exported out of the Subic Special Economic Zone, which status is legislated
under the Guarantor’s laws and regulations pursuant to the provisions of
Section 12 of the Guarantor’s Republic Act No. 7227 which is referred to in
Paragraph (a) hereinabove;

      (g)   "Investment Plan" means the Borrower’s investment program and
related financing plan for the 1994-1998 period, to be prepared and adopted
by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.06 of this
Agreement;

      (h)   "Land Use Plan" means the Plan adopted by the Borrower, pursuant
to its Resolution No. 94-013, dated April 6, 1994, specifying the general
civilian uses and related economic activities to be promoted within the SBF
Area (as such term is defined hereinafter), which Plan is referred to in
Section 4.07 of this Agreement;

      (i)   "Law" means, collectively, the following act, executive orders
and implementing rules and regulations: the Guarantor’s Republic Act No.
7227 on Accelerating The Conversion Of Military Reservations Into Other
Productive Uses, Creating The Bases Conversion And Development Authority For
This Purpose, Providing Funds Therefor And For Other Purposes, dated July



22, 1991 (also known as the "Bases Conversion and Development Act of 1992");
the Guarantor’s Presidential Proclamation No. 50 Proclaiming The Adoption
And Implementation Of The Subic Conversion Program As A Priority National
Program For Economic Development And Directing All Heads Of Departments,
Bureaus, Offices, Agencies And Instrumentalities of Government To Support
The Program, dated September 18, 1992; the Guarantor’s Executive Order No.
62 Prescribing Policies And Guidelines To Implement Republic Act No. 7227,
dated February 27, 1993; the Guarantor’s Executive Order No. 97 Clarifying
The Tax And Duty Free Incentive Within the Subic Special Economic Zone
Pursuant To Republic Act No. 7227, dated June 10, 1993; the Guarantor’s
Executive Order No. 97-A Further Clarifying The Tax and Duty Free Privilege
Within The Subic Special Economic and Freeport Zone, dated June 19, 1993;
and the Borrower’s Rules and Regulations Implementing The Provisions
Relative To The Subic Special Economic And Freeport Zone And The Subic Bay
Metropolitan Authority Under Republic Act No. 7227, as approved by the
Borrower’s Board of Directors on November 3, 1992, and as published in the
Guarantor’s Official Gazette, dated March 8, 1993;

      (j)   "SBF Area" means the Subic Bay Freeport as such area is defined
and its territory is delineated in Section 12 of the Guarantor’s Republic
Act No. 7227 referred to in Paragraph (j) above, which Area is subject to
the administration and management of the Borrower under the Guarantor’s
applicable laws and regulations; and

      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
forty million dollars ($40,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.



      (c) For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six (6)-month period ending on
                  the date immediately preceding each date specified in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                  Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six (6) months or the second
                  six (6) months of a calendar year.

      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six (6)
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this
Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
            of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three (3)-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall: (a) carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency: (i)
in a manner at all times consistent with the Environmental Management Plan
and the Land Use Plan, (ii) in conformity with sound administrative,
commercial, economic, financial and engineering practices, and (iii) in
accordance with appropriate safety, health and environmental standards
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. In order to ensure the proper carrying of the works
under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, not later than June
30, 1995, and in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.06 of, and
Section II of Schedule 4 to, this Agreement, qualified consultants to assist
in supervising the carrying out of said works and in strengthening the
Borrower’s capabilities in the management and proper development of its



assets and facilities so as to, inter alia, attract viable economic activity
to the SBF area, each with responsibilities, qualifications and terms of
employment satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1995,
appoint a duly qualified Chief Operating Officer possessing the requisite
responsibilities, qualifications and terms of employment.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1994,
furnish to the Bank for its approval: (i) a time-based action plan for the
provision of water, sewerage and solid waste management services within the
SBF Area; and (ii) a time-based action plan for the recruitment of
consultants, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.06 of, and
Section II of Schedule 4 to, this Agreement, and the carrying out of their
respective technical assistance services in respect of the institutional
strengthening activities under Part B of the Project. Thereafter, the
Borrower shall promptly carry out said action plans with due diligence and
efficiency and shall at all times take all action necessary to achieve their
respective objectives.

      Section 3.05. Not later than July 31, 1995, the Borrower shall carry
out, jointly with the Bank, a review of the progress achieved by the
Borrower in: (i) carrying out the Project; and (ii) implementing its
Freeport Status and operating and managing the SBF Area and its facilities.

      Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE IV

                 Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, commercial, economic,
financial and engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, at all times, operate and maintain
its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound administrative, commercial, economic, financial and
engineering practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.

      Section 4.04.  Except in the ordinary course of business, the Borrower
shall not, unless mutually agreed in advance between the Bank and the
Borrower, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which are required for the efficient conduct of its operations or
the carrying out of the Project.

      Section 4.05.  The Borrower shall promptly take all measures necessary
to acquire, maintain, renew and otherwise exercise all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises required for the proper conduct of its operations
and carrying out of its obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 4.06.  The Borrower shall:

      (a) Prepare and furnish to the Guarantor and the Bank, not later than
March 31 in each Fiscal Year a proposed Investment Plan, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request, to be carried out by the
Borrower during the next five (5) following Fiscal Years;

      (b) Exchange views with the Guarantor and the Bank on the Investment
Plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and



      (c) Thereafter take all measures required on its part (including,
without limitation, adoption of the Investment Plan by its Board of
Directors) to promptly carry out, during the next following Fiscal Year,
such Investment Plan for said year as shall have been agreed upon among the
Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower.

      Section 4.07.  Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall:

      (a) At all times carry out the Land Use Plan with due diligence and
efficiency;

      (b) Prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31 in each
Fiscal Year, a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Land Use Plan in respect
of the preceding Fiscal Year, together with any revisions proposed to be
introduced into the Land Use Plan; and

      (c) Exchange views with the Bank on each report prepared pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter promptly introduce such
revisions into the Land Use Plan as shall have been agreed between the Bank
and the Borrower.

      Section 4.08.  Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall:

      (a) At all times carry out, through its Ecology Center, the
Environmental Management Plan and enforce the Environment Procedures Manual
with due diligence and efficiency;

      (b) Prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31 in each
Fiscal Year, a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Environmental Management
Plan and enforcement of the Environment Procedures Manual in respect of the
preceding Fiscal Year, together with any revisions proposed to be introduced
into the Environmental Management Plan and Environment Procedures Manual;
and

      (c) Exchange views with the Bank on each report prepared pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter promptly introduce such
revisions into the Environmental Management Plan and Environment Procedures
Manual as shall have been agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.

                                 ARTICLE V

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.

      (b) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements), including those for the Special
                  Account, for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six (6) months after the end of each such
                  year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
                  for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records, accounts and financial statements as well
                  as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.



      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the estimated net
revenues of the Borrower for each Fiscal Year during the term of the debt
to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service
requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the Borrower,
including the debt to be incurred.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
                  maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the
                  date on which it is originally incurred.

           (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

                  (A)   under a loan contract or agreement or other
                        instrument providing for such debt or for the
                        modification of its terms of payment on the date of
                        such contract, agreement or instrument; and
                  (B)   under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
                        agreement providing for such guarantee has been
                        entered into.

          (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                        operations and net non-operating income; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to operations
                        including administration, adequate maintenance,
                        taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
                        provision for depreciation, other non-cash
                        operating charges and interest and other charges on
                        debt.

           (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                  between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those related
                        to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in



                        (A) above.

            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                  amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
                  any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.

           (vi)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
                  by the Borrower not earlier than twelve (12) months prior
                  to the incurrence of the debt in question, which both the
                  Bank and the Borrower accept as reasonable and as to
                  which the Bank has notified the Borrower of its
                  acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since
                  such notification which has, or may reasonably be
                  expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect
                  on the financial condition or future operating results of
                  the Borrower.

          (vii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                  necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                  Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
                  valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
                  lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
                  at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
                  such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
                  to the Bank.

      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the
ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 70 to 30.

      (b)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" shall have the same meaning as in Section
                  5.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement.

           (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred in the same manner as
                  provided in Section 5.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.

          (iii)   The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired
                  paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of the
                  Borrower not allocated to cover specific liabilities.

           (iv)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                  necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                  Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
                  valuation shall be made on the same basis as provided in
                  Section 5.02 (b) (vii) of this Agreement.

      Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of
not less than 1.2.

      (b)   Before June 30 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall, on the
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank,
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in
respect of such year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish
to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Years covered by such
review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including,
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in
order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which
                  could in the ordinary course of business be converted
                  into cash within twelve (12) months, including accounts
                  receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-
                  paid expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses



                  within the next Fiscal Year.

           (ii)   The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities
                  which will become due and payable or could under
                  circumstances then existing be called for payment within
                  twelve (12) months, including accounts payable, customer
                  advances, debt service requirements, taxes and payments
                  in lieu of taxes, and dividends.

          (iii)   The term "debt service requirements" shall have the same
                  meaning as in Section 5.02 (b) (v) of this Agreement.

           (iv)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                  necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                  Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
                  valuation shall be made on the same basis as provided in
                  Section 5.02 (b) (vii) of this Agreement.

      Section 5.05. For the purpose of calculating the amount of equity
specified in paragraph 5.03 (iii) of this Section, the Borrower shall carry
out, not later than December 31, 1995, a revaluation of its fixed assets in
operation, in accordance with sound and consistently applied methods of
valuation, acceptable to the Bank.

                                ARTICLE VI

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:

      (a) The Guarantor, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall
have taken any action for: (i) the disestablishment or dissolution of the
Borrower; or (ii) the suspension of any of the Borrower’s operations, so as
to affect materially and adversely the Borrower’s ability to perform any of
its obligations under this Agreement or otherwise carry out the Project, or
any part thereof.

      (b) The Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the Borrower’s Freeport
Status or the operations or the financial condition of the Borrower, or the
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.

      (c) The Guarantor, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall
have taken any action, including (but without limitation) the enactment or
issuance of legislation, orders or regulations, which may materially and
adversely affect, prevent, or otherwise interfere with the Borrower’s
ability to carry out the Project, or any part thereof, or the performance
by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement.

      (d) The By-laws shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations
or the financial condition of the Borrower, or the ability of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:

      (a) Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.

      (b) Any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (d) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60)
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower
and the Guarantor.

                                ARTICLE VII

                        Effective Date; Termination



      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a) The Borrower shall have duly adopted and published the
Environmental Management Plan.

      (b) The Borrower shall have duly published the Land Use Plan.

      Section 7.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                               ARTICLE VIII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Administrator of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT).

      For the Borrower:

            Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority
            SBMA Center
            Building No. 229
            Waterfront Road
            Subic Bay Freeport Zone
            Republic of the Philippines

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By          /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                    East Asia and Pacific

                        SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN AUTHORITY



                        By            /s/ Raul Ch. Rabe
                                                Authorized Representative

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
          Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)  Goods and related               5,000,000      100% of foreign
          installation for                          expenditures,
          Part A (9) of                             100% of local
          the Project                               expenditures (ex-
                                                    factory cost) and 70%
                                                    of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    for other items
                                                    procured locally

(2)  Works for                      24,000,000      90%
          Part A of the
          Project, except
          Part A (9) thereof

(3)       Consultants’               7,000,000      100%
          services for Part
          (B) of the Project

(4)       Unallocated                4,000,000
                                   ___________
          TOTAL                    $40,000,000

2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a) The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
and

    (b) The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.

3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of four million dollars ($4,000,000),
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after
December 6, 1993.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works
under contracts not exceeding the equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000), and for consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for firms and fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000) for individuals, all under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project



    The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in attracting
private investors to the SBF Area by inter alia: (i) improving the
infrastructure of, and access to, the area for industrial, commercial and
passenger traffic; (ii) maintaining the SBF asset base, including protecting
the environment; and (iii) strengthening the Borrower’s capacity to manage
and administer the SBF Area.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Site Improvements Works Within the SBF Area

1.  Constructing a four (4) kilometer ("km") two (2)-lane access road from
the Kalalake Bridge to the Kalayaan Gate.

2.  Constructing an eighty-two (82) meter two (2)-lane bridge, with
pedestrian walkway, linking Rizal Avenue (in the Guarantor’s City of
Olongapo) to the SBF Area.

3.  Constructing two (2) security plazas at the main gate complex (located
at the Rizal and Magsaysay Bridges) and at the Kalayaan Gate.

4.  Rehabilitating the airport runway, including: (i) mitigating the
subsidence at its northeast end; and (ii) reconstructing and widening its
southeast taxiway.

5.  Rehabilitating the apron at both the passenger and freight operations
areas of the airport.

6.  Converting: (i) an existing aircraft hangar into an airport passenger
terminal; and (ii) an existing building into a freight warehouse.

7.  Carrying out structural repairs of the Alava, Rivera and Bravo Wharves
and of Pier 1010, including installing a cathodic protection system at the
Bravo Wharf and at Pier 1010.

8.  Developing on a pilot basis six (6) standard factory building over a 10
hectares land area, including the basic infrastructure therefor.

9.  Provision of miscellaneous equipment in respect of the foregoing,
including: airport communications equipment and air traffic control
equipment suitable to provide minimum Category 1 air traffic control
services; security and maintenance equipment; security communications
equipment; utility vehicles; electricity and water meters; and emergency
generators and pumps.

Part B:   Institutional Strengthening

1.  Designing and installing: (i) a computerized duty-free purchases
merchandise control system, including provision of related computer hardware
and software and the training of personnel of the Borrower in the use and
maintenance of said system; and (ii) an automated financial management and
billing system for the recordation of the Borrower’s revenues and punctual
processing of its billings.

2.  Provision of technical assistance services for the purposes of assisting
the Borrower in: (i) preparing zoning regulations and a building design
code; (ii) privatizing its water, sewerage and solid waste management
services; and (iii) properly organizing and structuring its facilities
administration and management functions.

3.  Training of the Borrower’s personnel: (i) in planning and property
development; (ii) customs and taxation policy; (iii) investment promotion;
and (iv) miscellaneous Freeport Status related matters.

4.  Carrying out an environmental baseline survey to establish the basic
environmental conditions within the SBF area and develop a baseline of
information on the area’s forest lands and bay, and strengthening the
environmental management functions of the Ecology Center.



                              * * * * * * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*

February 15, 2000                              760,000
August 15, 2000                                785,000
February 15, 2001                              815,000
August 15, 2001                                845,000
February 15 2002                               875,000
August 15, 2002                                905,000
February 15, 2003                              940,000
August 15, 2003                                975,000
February 15, 2004                            1,010,000
August 15, 2004                              1,045,000
February 15, 2005                            1,085,000
August 15, 2005                              1,120,000
February 15, 2006                            1,165,000
August 15, 2006                              1,205,000
February 15, 2007                            1,250,000
August 15, 2007                              1,295,000
February 15, 2008                            1,340,000
August 15, 2008                              1,390,000
February 15, 2009                            1,440,000
August 15, 2009                              1,495,000
February 15, 2010                            1,550,000
August 15, 2010                              1,605,000
February 15, 2011                            1,660,000
August 15, 2011                              1,725,000
February 15, 2012                            1,785,000
August 15, 2012                              1,850,000
February 15, 2013                            1,915,000
August 15, 2013                              1,985,000
February 15, 2014                            2,060,000
August 15, 2014                              2,125,000

_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

    Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:

Not more than three years                0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                0.30
    not more than six years



    before maturity

More than six years but                  0.55
    not more than eleven years
    before maturity

More than eleven years but not           0.80
    more than sixteen years
    before maturity

More than sixteen years but not          0.90
    more than eighteen years
    before maturity

More than eighteen years before          1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding

    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the "Guidelines").

    (a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two (2) pre-disclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.

    (b) In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A. 1 hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1.  Local Competitive Bidding Procedures

    Contracts for works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of two
million dollars ($2,000,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of one million seven hundred thousand dollars
($1,700,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

2.  Shopping Procedures

    Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000),
may be procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three (3) suppliers from at least three (3) different countries



eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

    (a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

    (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.

    (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

2.  The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.     Employment of Consultants

1.  Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded to
consultants:  (A) whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) who shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines").

2.  For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior review by the Bank,
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to
contracts with firms estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per contract, and to contracts with
individuals estimated to cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000). However, this exception to prior review by the Bank shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment
of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to the equivalent of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000) or more per contract with firms and to the
equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or more per contract with
individuals.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                              Special Account

1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)  The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b) The term "Eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

    (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to one



million dollars ($1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:

    (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.

         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.

    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.

5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:

    (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.

6.        (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as



the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

    (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.