World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3671 TUN

                          Loan Agreement

                (Private Investment Credit Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                      Dated February 14, 1994

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3671 TUN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated February 14, 1994, between the INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the REPUBLIC
OF TUNISIA (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Project is to be executed by the Central Bank of
Tunisia (Banque Centrale de Tunisie) (the Central Bank) under an
Execution Agreement (as hereinafter defined) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Central Bank;

      (C)   the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement; and

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Action Plan" means the plan of actions and policies
designed to improve the soundness and efficiency of a Participating
Bank (as hereinafter defined), to be set forth in a letter from such
Participating Bank to the Central Bank (as hereinafter defined)
pursuant to the provisions of subparagraphs 2 (a) (viii) of the
Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement;

      (b)   "ANPE" means the Borrower’s National Agency for the
Protection of the Environment (Agence Nationale pour la Protection
de l’Environnement) established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower’s Law No. 88-91 dated August 2, 1988, and the Decree No.
88-1784, dated October 18, 1988, as the same may be amended from
time to time;

      (c)   "Basic Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 58-90, dated
September 19, 1958, pursuant to which the Central Bank has been
established and is operating, as the same may be amended from time
to time;

      (d)   "Category" means any Category of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (e)   "Circular" means Circular (Circulaire) No. 91-24 issued
by the Central Bank on December 17, 1991, setting forth prudential
regulations applicable to banking institutions, as the same may be
amended from time to time;

      (f)   "Decree 91-362" means the Borrower’s Decree No. 91-362
dated March 13, 1991, regarding the preparation of environmental
impact assessment;

      (g)   "Execution Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Central Bank pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time;

      (h)   "Finance Company" means a financial leasing company with
which the Borrower shall have entered into a Subsidiary Financing
Agreement (as hereinafter defined);

      (i)   "Finance Company Loan Agreement" means a loan agreement
of even date herewith between a Finance Company and the Bank;

      (j)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar
year;

      (k)   "free-limit Lease Financing" means a Lease Financing (as
hereinafter defined), which qualifies as a free-limit Lease
Financing pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph 7 (b) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

        (l)   "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan (as hereinafter
defined), which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the
provisions of subparagraph 7 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (m)   "Investment" means an equity investment, other than a
Sub-loan (as hereinafter defined), made or proposed to be made by a



Participating Bank (as hereinafter defined) out of the proceeds of
the Loan in a Private Enterprise (as hereinafter defined) for the
purposes of carrying out an Investment Project under Part A of the
Project;

      (n)   "Development Bank" means a banking institution which
qualifies as such pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Law
No. 67-51, dated December 7, 1967, setting forth the regulation of
the banking profession, as the same may be amended from time to
time;

      (o)   "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by a Private Enterprise (as hereinafter
defined) under Part A of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a
Sub-loan (as hereinafter defined), or an Investment, or a Lease
Financing (as hereinafter defined);

      (p)   "Lease Financing" means a financing provided or to be
provided by a Finance Company out of the proceeds of the Loan to a
Private Enterprise to finance the lease of (with the option to
purchase) vehicles and/or equipment for purposes of carrying out an
Investment Project under Part A of the Project, involving the
periodical payment to such Finance Company a rental fee consisting
in part of an amortization component as set forth in subparagraph 5
(b) of Schedule 5 of this Agreement;

      (q)   "Participating Bank" means a deposit or development
banking institution with which the Borrower shall have entered into
a Subsidiary Financing Agreement (as hereinafter defined);

      (r)   "Participating Bank Loan Agreement" means a loan
agreement of even date herewith between a Participating Bank and the
Bank;

      (s)   "Participating Financial Intermediary" means any or each
Participating Bank or Finance Company;

      (t)   "Private Enterprise" means an enterprise operating in
any sector of the economy, except farming and construction of
housing and land development for housing: (i) in which at least 50%
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by a private individual, a
partnership of private individuals, or an enterprise in which not
more than 50% of the stock or other proprietary interest is owned or
effectively controlled by a Public Enterprise (as hereinafter
defined) or the Borrower or any of its political or administrative
sub-divisions or agencies; and (ii) to which a Participating
Financial Intermediary proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or
proposes to provide or has provided a Lease Financing or in which a
Participating Bank proposes to make or has made an Investment;

      (u)   "Project Preparation Advances" means collectively the
project preparation advances No. 173-0 and 173-1, granted by the
Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the exchange of letters dated
August 3, 1990, and September 6, 1991, respectively, between the
Borrower and the Bank;

      (v)   "Public Enterprise" means: (i) a non-administrative
public institution (�tablissement public n'ayant pas un caract�re
administratif); (ii) an enterprise in which 100% of the stock is
owned by the Borrower; (iii) an enterprise in which more than 50% of
the stock is owned, individually or jointly, by the Borrower, public
local communities (collectivit�s publiques locales), public
institutions (�tablissements publics), and enterprises in which 100%
of the stock is owned by the Borrower; or (iv) an enterprise
included in a list established or to be established by the decree
referred to in Article 9 of the Borrower's Law No. 89-9, dated
February 1, 1989;

      (w)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;



      (x) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
Participating Bank out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Private
Enterprise for purposes of carrying out an Investment Project under
Part A of the Project;

      (y)   "Subsidiary Financing" means a loan made or proposed to
be made to a Participating Financial Intermediary by the Borrower
out of the proceeds of the Loan for purposes of carrying out the
Project; and

      (z)   "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means an agreement
entered or to be entered into between the Borrower and a
Participating Financial Intermediary pursuant to subparagraph 2 (a)
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be paid) by the Borrower, directly or through a
Participating Financial Intermediary, on account of withdrawals made
by a Private Enterprise under a Sub-loan, Investment, or Lease
Financing to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal of the
Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in the Central Bank a special deposit account in
dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest in the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.



      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project
             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement shall:
(i) carry out the Project through the Central Bank with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, environment, financial and technical
practices, and cause the Central Bank to perform, in accordance with
the provisions of the Execution Agreement and the Implementation



Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, all the
obligations of the Central Bank therein set forth; (ii) take or
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable the Central Bank to perform such obligations; and (iii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall enter into an Execution
Agreement with the Central Bank, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the arrangements necessary
for relending the proceeds of the Loan to the Participating
Financial Intermediaries and for the execution of the Project by the
Central Bank.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have its records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six (6) months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                   Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are



                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the Execution Agreement shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of the Central Bank to perform any of its
obligations thereunder; and

      (b)   the Basic Law or the Circular shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or the financial condition of the
Central Bank or its ability to carry out the Project.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
any of the events specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   The Borrower and the Central Bank shall have concluded
the Execution Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (b)   At least one Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall have
been executed by the Borrower and a Participating Financing
Intermediary.

      Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   the Execution Agreement referred to in Section 6.01 (a)
of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and the Central Bank and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Central Bank in accordance with its terms; and

      (b)   the Subsidiary Financing Agreement referred to in
Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and Participating Financial Intermediary
which is a party thereto and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and such Participating Financial Intermediary in accordance with its
terms.

      Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses



      Section 7.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and
Foreign Investment of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of International Cooperation
              and Foreign Investment
            149, Avenue de la Libert�ı
            1002 Tunis-Belv�d�re
            Republic of Tunisia

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MCIIE                     18060

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                         REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                         By /s/ Ismail Khelil
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed



(1)   Sub-Loans                 41,300,000      100%
      under Part A
      of the Project

(2)   Investments under          2,500,000      100%
      Part A of the Project

(3)   Lease Financing            5,000,000      100%
      under Part A
      of the Project

(4)   Consultants’ Services       500,000       100%
      and Training under
      Part B of the Project

(5)   Refunding of                700,000       Amount due
      Project Preparation                       pursuant to
      Advances                                  Section 2.02 (c)
                                                of this Agreement
                                __________

      TOTAL                     50,000,000
                                ==========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of a Sub-loan, an Investment or
a Lease Financing, unless the Sub-loan, Investment, or Lease
Financing, as the case may be, has been made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and until the Borrower shall have
furnished to the Bank a duly executed copy of the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement entered into between the Borrower and the
Participating Financial Intermediary which has made the Sub-loan or
Investment or provided the Lease Financing, as the case may be, in
connection with which withdrawals are requested.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist the
Participating Financial Intermediaries in financing such productive
facilities and activities as will contribute to the development of
the private sector and the strengthening of the Private Enterprises’
capability to adapt to an increasingly competitive environment; and
(ii) promote competition within the financial system.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      Provision of Sub-loans, Investments, and Lease Financing to
finance specific development projects for the establishment,
expansion and upgrading of the productive facilities of Private
Enterprises, and to assist them in strengthening and/or
restructuring their organization, management and operation.

Part B:

      Strengthening of the monitoring and management capabilities of
Participating Banks, including the development of a suitable
information system to monitor risk assets, the establishment of
criteria and a warning system to identify problem loans, and the
enhancement of the Participating Banks’ capacity to prepare
enterprise diagnosis.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.



                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 1 and August 1

      beginning August 1, 1999
      through August 1, 2010                 2,085,000

And on February 1, 2011                      2,045,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                        0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                        1.00



      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                      Implementation Program

1.    The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for purposes of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement and shall be incorporated, as
appropriate, in the Execution Agreement.

2.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   For the purposes of carrying out the Project, make
available to the Participating Financial Intermediaries the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2), (3)
and (4) under Subsidiary Financing Agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and each Participating Financial Intermediary:
(i) on the basis of the eligibility criteria set forth in Section A
of the Annex to this Schedule; and (ii) in accordance with terms,
conditions, and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower
and the Central Bank, which shall include, without limitation, those
set forth in Sections B and C of the Annex to this Schedule;

      (b)   Monitor and supervise the overall execution of the
Project;

      (c)   Cause the Central Bank to monitor and supervise the
carrying out by each Participating Financial Intermediary of its
respective obligations under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement to
which it is a party in accordance with policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank;

      (d)   Exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower and achieve the purposes of the Project;

      (e)   Not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree; and

      (f)   Ensure that, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the aggregate amount of all Subsidiary Financing
made available to any one Participating Financial Intermediary shall
not exceed the equivalent of $17,500,000.

3.    (a)   The Bank and the Borrower shall, not later than eighteen
(18) months after the Effective Date, exchange views on the progress
of each Participating Bank in carrying out the Action Plan which it
has adopted.

      (b)   For the purposes of subparagraph (a) above, the Borrower
shall take all action necessary to ensure that two months prior to
such exchange of views, the Central Bank furnish to the Borrower,
for forwarding to the Bank for its review and comment, a report on
the progress achieved by each Participating Bank in carrying out the
Action Plan which it has adopted, in such detail as the Bank should
reasonably request.

      (c)   If after an exchange of views pursuant to subparagraph
3 (a) above the Bank shall have reasonably considered as un-
satisfactory the progress achieved by a Participating Bank in
carrying out the Action Plan which it has adopted, the Bank may
withhold the approval of applications or the authorization of
withdrawals for Sub-loans (including free-limit Sub-loans) and
Investments under subparagraphs 7 (a) and (b) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement in respect of such Participating Bank. Such withholding
will continue until the Participating Bank shall have taken such
remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary to
achieve the objectives of the Action Plan.

4.    (a)   The Borrower shall, on the basis of recommendations and



criteria agreed to with the Bank, prepare in consultation with all
parties concerned for submission to the Bank not later than June 30,
1995, a report outlining measures to implement a strategy to foster
the overall development of the Development Banks within the
Borrower’s banking and financial sector.

      (b)   The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Central Bank and the
Development Banks on said report and shall promptly thereafter
introduce the necessary revisions in the report as approved by the
Bank.

                       ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4

            Criteria, Principal Terms and Conditions of
                  Subsidiary Financing Agreements

1.    Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the
criteria, principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Annex shall apply for the purposes of subparagraph 2 (a)
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section A:  Eligibility Criteria

2.    A Subsidiary Financing Agreement may be entered into with a
Participating Bank or Finance Company, duly established and
operating in the territory of the Borrower, in respect of which the
Borrower shall have established to the satisfaction of the Bank
that:

      (a)   The Participating Bank: (i) is operating pursuant to
investment and lending policies and procedures acceptable to the
Bank, the Borrower, and the Central Bank, and has undertaken to
maintain said policies and procedures; (ii) has completed an audit
for the most recent completed Fiscal Year, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the principles
of the Circular; (iii) has a sound financial structure, including,
inter alia, a risk-weighted capital ratio of not less than 2.5%,
calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Circular, for
the year it has been audited; (iv) is in a position to maintain a
risk-weighted capital ratio of not less than 5% calculated in
accordance with the provisions of the Circular, for each of its
Fiscal Years after Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1993; (v) has
adequate organization, management, staff and other resources
necessary for its efficient operation; (vi) applies appropriate
procedures for appraisal, supervision, and monitoring of Investment
Projects, including for the efficient evaluation and supervision of
the procurement and environmental elements of Investment Projects;
(vii) has adopted a Medium-term Strategy acceptable to the Bank,
including limitations on sectoral exposure for its medium and long-
term loan and equity investment portfolios; (viii) has adopted, if
considered necessary by the Bank, an Action Plan satisfactory to the
Bank and the Central Bank; and (ix) holds, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree in the case of a Participating Bank which shall have
entered into a Participating Bank Loan Agreement, an adequate
expected minimum pipeline of Investment Projects of not less than:
(A) $4,000,000 equivalent potential Sub-Loans, in the case of
deposit Participating Banks; and (B) $10,000,000 equivalent
potential Sub-Loans, in the case of development Participating Banks.

      (b)   The Finance Company: (i) is operating pursuant to
investment and financial leasing policies and procedures acceptable
to the Bank, the Borrower, and the Central Bank, and has undertaken
to maintain said policies and procedures; (ii) has completed an
audit for the most recent completed Fiscal Year, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the principles
of the Circular; (iii) has a sound financial structure, including,
inter alia, compliance for the year it has been audited with
provisions on classification of risk assets, provisioning for risk
assets, and minimum capital requirements, according to the



provisions of the Circular, and possibility of maintenance
thereafter for each of its Fiscal Year of a financial structure
required to enable it to comply with the requirements of the
Circular; (iv) has had profitable operations for at least the last
completed Fiscal Year; (v) has adequate organization, management,
staff and other resources necessary for its efficient operation;
(vi) has appropriate procedures for appraisal, supervision, and
monitoring of Investment Projects, including for the efficient
evaluation and supervision of the procurement and environmental
elements of Investment Projects; (vii) has adopted a Medium-term
Strategy acceptable to the Bank, including limitations on sectoral
exposure for its Lease Financing’ portfolios; and (viii) holds,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in the case of a Finance
Company which shall have entered into a Finance Company Loan
Agreement, an adequate expected minimum annual approval of Lease
Financings for Investment Projects of not less than $2,000,000
equivalent.

Section B:  Terms

3.    (a)   The principal amount to be made available out of the
proceeds of the Loan to a Participating Financial Intermediary under
its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall: (i) be
denominated in Tunisian dinars; and (ii) in the case of:

            (A)    Participating Banks be: (I) the equivalent in
                   Tunisian dinars of the aggregate amount of the
                   principal of all Sub-Loans and the aggregate
                   amount of all Investments made out of the
                   proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the Subsidiary
                   Financing Agreement providing for such
                   Subsidiary Financing; and (II) the equivalent in
                   Tunisian dinars (determined as of the date or
                   respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account)
                   of the value of the currency or currencies so
                   withdrawn or paid out by such Participating
                   Financial Intermediary on account of the cost of
                   services to be carried out under Part B of the
                   Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
                   of the Loan allocated from time to time to
                   Category (3).

            (B)    Finance Companies be the equivalent in Tunisian
                   dinars of the aggregate amount of the principal
                   of all Lease Financing made out of the proceeds
                   of the Loan pursuant to the Subsidiary Financing
                   Agreement providing for such Subsidiary
                   Financing.

      (b)   Each Subsidiary Financing shall: (i) be charged on the
principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time: (A) interest set forth at the money market interest rate, plus
an additional charge equal to fifty (50) basis points, as shall be
calculated on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank;
provided, however, that the interest rate to be charged on the
principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, shall be equal at least to the rate of interest applicable
from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section
2.05 of this Agreement; and (B) a commitment fee equal to the rate
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions
of Section 2.04 of this Agreement calculated on the principal amount
of the Subsidiary Financing not withdrawn from time to time; and
(ii) be repaid in accordance with an amortization schedule
calculated to have a maturity not exceeding the maturity of the
Loan.

4.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "arrears" means any interest and/or principal
payment on a loan which is overdue by more than ninety (90) days;



      (b) the term "money market rate" means the average annual
interest rate paid by Participating Banks in the Borrower’s
interbank market, as such rate is posted on a daily basis by the
Central Bank; and

      (c)   the term "risk-weighted capital ratio" means the
Participating Financial Intermediary’s ratio of capital to risk-
weighted assets and off-balance sheet items, as the same is defined
to the date of this Agreement in the Circular.

Section C:  Conditions

5.    Each Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall contain provisions
pursuant to which each Participating Financial Intermediary shall
undertake to:

      (a)   Carry out its activities under the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs with sound financial standards and
practices, with qualified management and personnel in adequate
numbers, and in conformity with the investment and lending or
financial leasing policies and procedures referred to, as the case
may be, in subparagraphs 2 (a) (i) and 2 (b) (i) of Section A of
this Annex;

      (b)   Make Sub-loans or Investments or provide Lease Financing
on the basis of the criteria and in accordance with the procedures,
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;

      (c)   Ensure that, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree: (i) the aggregate amount of all Sub-loans made to
any one Private Enterprise or the aggregate amount of all Lease
Financing provided to any one Private Enterprise, as case may be,
shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000; and (ii) the
estimated cost of any one Investment Project shall not exceed the
equivalent of $25,000,000 (excluding the cost of land acquisition);

      (d)   Exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under its
respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement and achieve the purposes
of the Project; and (iii) not assign, abrogate, amend, or waive any
of its agreements providing for Sub-loans, Investments, or Lease
Financings without prior approval of the Borrower;

      (e)   Take all actions necessary to ensure that Private
Enterprises are furnished in adequate time with all the information
required for the carrying out of an environmental impact assessment
pursuant, inter alia, to Decree 91-362, and for the timely
submission of such assessment to ANPE for approval;

      (f)   Ensure that (i) goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; and

      (g)   (i) maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor
and record the progress of each Investment Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it) financed by a Sub-loan
or supported by an Investment or Lease Financing, and the progress
under Part B of the Project, and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained accounting practices the operations and
financial conditions of the Participating Financial Intermediary;
(ii) have the records referred to in subparagraph (i) hereof, its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) and the records and
accounts for the accounts for each Investment Project for each
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors and according to terms
of reference, both acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Bank
as soon as available but in any case not later than six (6) months



after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of itsfinancial statements for 
such year as so audited, and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said records, accounts and
financial statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request; and

      (h)   Ensure that, for the purposes of subparagraphs 2 (a)
(iv) and 2 (b) (iii) of Section A of this Schedule, before July 31
in each of its Fiscal Years, the Participating Financial
Intermediary shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the
Participating Financial Intermediary and satisfactory to the Bank,
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in said
subparagraphs in respect of such Fiscal Year and the next following
Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Borrower for forwarding to the
Bank, the results of such review upon its completion. If any such
review shows that the Participating Financial Intermediary would not
meet the requirements set forth in subparagraphs 2 (a) (iv) or 2 (b)
(iii) of said Section A, as the case may be, for the Participating
Financial Intermediary’s Fiscal Year covered by such review, the
Participating Financial Intermediary shall promptly take all
measures satisfactory to the Bank in order to meet such
requirements.

6.    Except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree, each
Participating Financial Intermediary shall: (i) open and thereafter
maintain on its books, in accordance with its normal financial
practices and on conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a separate
account to which it shall credit, as the case may be, each payment
of: (A) interest or other charges on, or repayment of principal
payments under, any Sub-loan; (B) dividends, or recovery of capital
under, any Investment; and (C) rental payments under any Lease
Financing, in all cases promptly upon receipt thereof; and (ii)
utilize all amounts so credited to said separate account, to the
extent they are not yet required to meet said Participating
Financial Intermediary’s payment or repayment obligations to the
Borrower under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement,
exclusively to finance additional development projects to further
the development of the Borrower’s private sector in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.

7.    The right of a Participating Financial Intermediary to the use
of the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Financing shall be: (i)
suspended upon failure of such Participating Financial Intermediary
to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement to which it is a party, or to continue to be in compliance
with any of the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 2 of
Section A of this Annex, with the exception, respectively, of the
requirements set forth in subparagraph 2 (a) (ix) in the case of
Participating Banks, and those set forth in subparagraph 2 (b)
(viii) in the case of Finance Companies; and (ii) terminated if such
right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (i) hereof
for a continuous period of sixty (60) days.

                          SCHEDULE 5

              Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
          of Sub-loans, Investments, and Lease Financings

1.    Except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree, the
provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule shall apply for
the purposes of subparagraph 5 (b) of Section C of the Annex to
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

2.    Each Sub-loan, Investment, or Lease Financing shall be made
only to a Private Enterprise which shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Participating Financial Intermediary making
available the Sub-loan, Investment, or Lease Financing, as the case
may be, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, that
the Private Enterprise: (i) is creditworthy and profitable, and has
a sound financial structure; and (ii) has organization, management,



staff and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of
its operations, including the carrying out of the Investment
Project.

3.    Each Sub-loan, Investment, or Lease Financing shall be made
available only for an Investment Project which, on the basis of
appraisal procedures carried out in accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank, including, if necessary, the preparation
of an environmental impact assessment approved by ANPE pursuant to
the requirements of Decree 91-362 and fulfillment of other
applicable requirements determined by ANPE, is: (i) determined to be
technically feasible and commercially, economically and financially
viable; (ii) calculated to yield a financial rate of return of at
least 12% and an economic rate of return of at least 10%; and (iii)
designed in accordance with appropriate safety, health and
environment guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    (a)   The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall: (i) be
denominated and be the equivalent in Tunisian dinars (determined as
of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account
or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the currency
or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of
goods and services for the Investment Project to be carried out
under such Sub-Loan and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1); and (iii) have a
maturity of not more than 15 years, including a grace period of not
more than 3 years; and (iv) be made on other terms and conditions,
including those relating to interest rate and other charges
determined in accordance with the Participating Bank’s investment
and lending policies and practices referred to in subparagraph 2 (a)
(i) of Section A of the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   The amount of each Investment shall: (i) be denominated
and the equivalent in Tunisian dinars (determined as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies
so withdrawn or paid out on account of the amount of the Investment
for the Investment Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2); (ii) be made on
terms and conditions agreed upon on a case-by-case basis by the
Participating Bank and the Private Enterprise, and in accordance
with the Participating Bank’s investment and lending policies and
practices, including a divestiture policy satisfactory to the
Participating Bank and the Bank containing a buy-back option for the
Private Enterprise to purchase at any time the Participating Bank’s
equity at its estimated market or predetermined value; and (iii) be
associated with additional capital investments by the Private
Enterprise.

      (c)   Each Lease Financing shall: (i) be denominated and be
the equivalent in Tunisian dinars (determined as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies
so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods for the
Investment Project to be carried out under such Lease Financing and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to Category (3); (ii) have a term of not more than seven (7)
years, including a grace period for rental payments of not more than
six (6) months; (iii) be made on other terms and conditions,
including those relating to the schedule of rental payments and
other charges determined in accordance with the Finance Company’s
investment and financial leasing policies and practices referred to
in subparagraph 2 (b) (i) of Section A of the Annex to Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; provided, however, that each rental payment in such
schedule shall consist in part of an amortization component, which
component shall be calculated as if: (A) the Lease Financing were a
loan for the amount of the leased vehicles’ and equipment’s value;
(B) each rental payment were a payment of interest and principal
under such loan; and (C) each amortization component were the
principal amount included in each such payment of interest and
principal.



5.    The proceeds of the Loan which may be withdrawn under a Sub-
loan shall not exceed 70% of the cost of each Investment Project.

6.    No expenditures for goods or services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:

      (a)   the Sub-loan, Investment or Lease Financing for such
Investment Project shall have been approved by the Bank and such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the
application and information required under subparagraph 7 (a) of
this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan, Investment or Lease
Financing; or

      (b)   the Sub-loan or Lease Financing for such Investment
Project shall have been, respectively, a free-limit Sub-loan or
free-limit Lease Financing for which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on
which the Bank shall have received the request and information
required under subparagraph 8 (b) of this Schedule in respect of
such free-limit Sub-loan or free-limit Lease Financing. For the
purposes of this Agreement: (i) a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a
Sub-loan, other than the first three Sub-loans to be made by each
Participating Bank to which the Bank has not provided any other loan
in any outstanding agreement between the Bank and such Participating
Bank entered into before the date of this Agreement, for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $1,000,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan by the Participating
Bank making the Sub-loan, the proceeds of which have been or are
being used for financing goods and services directly and materially
related to such Investment Project; and (ii) a free-limit Lease
Financing shall be a Lease Financing, other than the first three
Lease Financings to be made available by each Finance Company, for
an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $1,000,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan by the
Finance Company making available the Lease Financing, the proceeds
of which have been or are being used for financing goods directly
and materially related to such Investment Project.

7.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan or Lease Financing (other
than a free-limit Sub-loan or free-limit Lease Financing) or an
Investment to the Bank for approval, the Participating Financial
Intermediary shall furnish to the Bank, through the Borrower, an
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a
description of the Private Enterprise and an appraisal of the
Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, Investment or Lease
Financing, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan or
schedule of rental payments under the Lease Financing; and (iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan or free-limit Lease Financing shall contain: (i) a summary
description of the Private Enterprise, including its scope of
activities and ownership structure; the Investment Project,
including, inter alia, a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, total cost, financing
plan, financial rate of return, the name of any banking institutions
and financial leasing companies which proposes to finance the
Investment Project, the proposed loan and/or equity share for each
such banking institution and the proposed lease financing share for
each such financial leasing company, financial ratios (satisfaction
of eligibility criteria, or, if such criteria are not met,
indication on the timing for satisfaction thereof), an environmental



impact assessment, if necessary, and, for Sub-Loans, the economic
rate of return; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or
the Lease Financing, including interest rate, the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan and grace period, or the schedule of
rental payments under the Lease Financing, and collateral, if any.

      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of subparagraphs 7 (a) and (b) shall be presented to the
Bank on or before December 31, 1996; provided, however, that
eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, the Bank may withhold
the approval of applications or the authorization of withdrawals
under said subparagraphs pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph
3 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement in respect of a Participating
Bank.  The Borrower shall promptly notify the concerned
Participating Bank of the Bank’s decision on such withholding.

8.    Sub-loans, Investments, and Lease Financings shall be made on
terms whereby the Participating Financial Intermediary shall obtain,
by written contract with the Private Enterprise or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Bank and the Borrower, including in the case of any Sub-Loan and
Lease Financing and, to the extent that it shall be appropriate, in
the case of any Investment, the right to:

      (a)   require the Private Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards
and to maintain adequate records;

      (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project;

      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;

      (d)   require that: (i) the Private Enterprise shall take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Private Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;

      (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Private
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Project;

      (f)   require the Private Enterprise to comply with any
requirements and conditions for the protection of the environment as
shall have been determined by ANPE; and

      (g)   suspend or terminate the right of the Private Enterprise
to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Private
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the
Participating Financial Intermediary.

                            SCHEDULE 6

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding



      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works under
Part A of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. In
the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the
Republic of Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

      Contracts for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $5,000,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts
awarded: (i) in accordance with established commercial practices
acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) which shall ensure that goods and
works shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods or works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of



paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    Services for Part A of the Project shall be: (i) retained in
accordance with established commercial practices acceptable to the
Bank; and (ii) purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as the time of delivery and
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them.

2.    (a)   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants: (i) whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) who shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

      (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) above,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior review
or approval of the Bank of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts
nor to the employment of individuals, to single source selection of
firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined
by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above.

                        SCHEDULE 7

                Modifications of General Conditions

      For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      (c)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the
end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted
therefor:

            "or (f) by the date specified in subparagraph 7 (c) of
      Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect
      of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications
      or requests under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said
      subparagraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications or
      requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the
      Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
      applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
      Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
      portion of the Loan.  Upon giving of such notice, such amount
      or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."                            SCH



EDULE 8

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; provided,
however, that notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph 6 (b)
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans or free-limit
Lease Financing, as the case may be, may be made out of the Special
Account before the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the
Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall
qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently
authorize such withdrawals; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall



reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.