World Bank Document


                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3786 TUN

                              Loan Agreement

                   (Secondary Education Support Project)

                                  between

                            REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                         Dated September 21, 1994

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3786 TUN
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 21, 1994, between the REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
      Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "basic education" means the education dispensed in the
Borrower’s schools from the first to the ninth grades of schooling in
accordance with the provisions of the Borrower’s Law No. 91-65 dated July
29, 1991;

      (b)   "Baseline Values and Target Values" means the baseline values
and target values to be applied in connection with each of the Impact
Indicators (as hereinafter defined);

      (c)   "Category" means a Category of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement; and the term "Categories" means more than one Category
collectively;

      (d)   "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque
Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s
Law No. 58-90 dated September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from time
to time;

      (e)   "CNM" means the National Maintenance Center (Centre National de
Maintenance), an administrative public institution established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Budget Law No. 87-83 dated December 31, 1987, or
any successor thereto;

      (f)   "CREFOC" means a Regional Center for Education and Inservice
Training (Centre Regional de l’Education et de la Formation Continue), an
administrative public institution established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower’s Law No. 90-107 dated November 26, 1990 and the related
implementation regulations, or any successor thereto; and CREFOCs means more
than one CREFOC or the CREFOCs collectively;

      (g)   "DBE" means the Directorate of Buildings and Equipment
(Direction des Batiments et de l’Equipment) within the MES (as hereinafter
defined);

      (h)   "DGES" means the General Directorate of Secondary Education
(Direction Generale de l’Enseignement Secondaire) within the MES (as
hereinafter defined);

      (i)   "DGFC" means the General Directorate for Inservice Training
(Direction Generale de la Formation Continue) within the MES (as hereinafter
defined);

      (j)   "DPSI" means the General Directorate for Planning, Statistics
and Information Science (Direction Generale de la Prospective, de la
Statistique et de l’Informatique) within the MES (as hereinafter defined);

      (k)   "DRE" means a Regional Directorate of Education (Direction
Regionale de l’Education), an administrative public institution established
and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 88-242 dated February
16, 1988, or any successor thereto; and DREs means more than one DRE or the
DREs collectively;

      (l)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences
on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year;

      (m)   "Impact Indicators" means the impact indicators aimed at



assessing and measuring the progress made by the Borrower in the achievement
of the objectives of the Project, as the same may be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of Section C (c) of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement;

      (n)   "INBMI" means the National Institute for Office and Micro-
Computer Science (Institut National de Bureautique et de Micro-
Informatique), an administrative public institution established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 90-498 dated March 10, 1990,
or any successor thereto;

      (o)   "INSE" means the National Institute of Educational Sciences
(Institut National des Sciences de l’Education), an administrative public
institution established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No.
72-275 dated September 8, 1972, or any successor thereto;

      (p)   "ISEFC" means the Higher Institute for Education and Inservice
Training (Institut Superieur de l’Education et de la Formation Continue),
an administrative public institution established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower’s Decree 84-308 dated March 21, 1984, or any successor thereto;

      (q)   "MES" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Sciences
(Ministere de l’Education et des Sciences) established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 92-1929 dated November 2, 1992;

      (r)   "PMU" means the Project Management Unit (Unite de Gestion du
Projet) to be established and managed by the MES pursuant to the provisions
of Section A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (s)   "secondary education" means the education dispensed in the
Borrower’s schools (lycees) from the tenth to the thirteenth grades of
schooling in accordance with the provisions of the Borrower’s Law No. 91-65
dated July 29, 1991;

      (t)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and

      (u)   "upper-basic education" means the education dispensed in the
Borrower’s schools (ecoles preparatoires) from the seventh to the ninth
grades of schooling in accordance with the provisions of the Borrower’s Law
No. 91-65 dated July 29, 1991.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
ninety-eight million three hundred thousand dollars ($98,300,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the



principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MES with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, education,



engineering, environmental, financial and technical practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that
adequate and timely financial arrangements are in place at all times for the
continued and successful operation of the Project, including, without
limitation, the provision, beginning with the FY 1995 budget and for each
following FY budget until Project completion: (i) to the MES, of the
necessary budgetary resources required to maintain an adequate level of the
MES’s annual recurrent and investment budget for basic education; and (ii)
to the CNM, the INBMI, the INSE and the PMU, of the funds necessary to allow
them to suitably meet each of their recurrent and investment budget costs
for the Project.

      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for the
                  Special Account, for each Fiscal Year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than nine (9) months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and



           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

                                 ARTICLE V

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the PMU shall have
been established in accordance with the provisions of Section A.2 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and shall be operational.

      Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VI

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign
Investment of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of International Cooperation
              and Foreign Investment
            149, Avenue de la Liberte
            1002 Tunis-Belvedere
            Republic of Tunisia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MCIIE                     18060

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA



                        By /s/ Oussama Romdhani
                        Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                        Regional Vice President
                        Middle East and North Africa

                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil Works                48,700,000       44%

(2) Equipment                  39,000,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally

(3) Consultants’                  600,000       100%
    Services for
    the Project,
    excluding
    Part B.1 thereof

(4) Training                     2,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures

(5) Unallocated                  8,000,000
                                __________

      TOTAL                     98,300,000
                                ==========

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under



contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent, excluding those referred to in
paragraph 1 (a) (iii) of Part D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) works
under contracts not exceeding $350,000 equivalent, excluding those referred
to in paragraph 1 (a) (v) of Part D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (iii)
services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $75,000
equivalent; and (iv) services of individual consultants under contracts not
exceeding $20,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to continue to assist the Borrower in:
(i) implementing its basic and secondary education reform program with a
view to improve the quality and efficiency of basic and secondary education;
and (ii) improving access to upper-basic and secondary education.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Strengthening of Education Delivery

    Carrying out of a program designed to assist the MES in improving the
education delivery mechanisms, specifically, through the implementation of
quality- and efficiency-related measures consisting of the following:

1.  Strengthening of the Borrower’s national education performance
evaluation and assessment system by means of institutional support to the
MES’s central and regional evaluation services and to the INSE, including
the rehabilitation of a library and the provision of equipment, computer
systems, books, local and overseas training and consultants’ services.

2.  Promotion of effectiveness-enhancing teaching and training practices
among about twenty-five thousand (25,000) upper-basic and secondary
education teachers, about three hundred (300) central and regional
inspectors and pedagogic counsellors, about seven hundred (700) school
directors and about one hundred (100) central and regional MES staff,
particularly through the provision of local and overseas training and
consultants’ services.

3.  Strengthening of the MES’ central and regional administration and
planning services so as to improve the information and feedback mechanisms
among the different decision-making levels in education, primarily through
the development and implementation of a Management Information System
designed to assure a suitable linkage among the central and regional MES
administrative services, about twenty-three (23) DREs and about three
hundred eighty (380) secondary education schools (lycees), and the provision
of the equipment, local and overseas training and consultants’ services as
required therefor.

Part B:   Enhancement of Education Infrastructure

1.  Construction of about thirty (30) upper-basic education schools and
about forty-four (44) secondary education schools, including six (6)
boarding facilities therein, in under-served areas.

2.  Rehabilitation of selected basic education and secondary education
schools in areas with demonstrated need therefor and of about two hundred
(200) computer laboratories in secondary education schools (lycees), and
establishment of a preventive school main- tenance system within the DBE,
including provision of equipment, overseas training and consultants’
services as required therefor.

3.  Carrying out of a program to reinforce the pedagogic capabilities of
about three hundred eighty (380) selected secondary schools (lycees) and to
support the CNM and INBMI, comprising provision of: (i) pedagogic books and
subscriptions, local training to librarians and consultants’ services to
reinforce libraries in twenty-three (23) CREFOCs and about three hundred
eighty (380) secondary schools (lycees); (ii) computer equipment, local and
overseas training, and consultants’ services as required to support the
INBMI in the development of computer science in secondary education schools;



(iii) pedagogic equipment to sustain the application of education curricula
at the level of upper-basic education and secondary education; and (iv)
equipment, training and consultants’ services to the CNM to assist it in
enhancing its use and maintenance of pedagogic equipment in upper-basic
education and secondary education schools.

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 1 and September 1

    Beginning on March 1, 2000
    through March 1, 2011                4,095,000

And on September 1, 2011                 4,115,000

_____________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

    Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:

Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity

More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years



    before maturity

More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity

More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.

    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for office and education equipment,
desktop computers, books and resource materials shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to be attractive to suppliers.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Tunisia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

Local Competitive Bidding

1.  (i)  Goods, including pedagogical equipment and pedagogical materials,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $4,700,000; (ii) furniture for the INSE
documentation center; and (iii) works, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Local Shopping

2.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,100,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three (3) suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.



Direct Contracting

3.  Contracts for: (i) goods which the Bank shall have agreed are of a
proprietary nature, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,800,000, may
be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) civil works for the
rehabilitation of schools under Part B.2 of the Project estimated to cost
the equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $4,000,000, and for which the Borrower shall have obtained
bids from at least three (3) contractors, may be awarded after direct
negotiations with contractors, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

    (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for goods to be awarded under
Part A hereof estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more; (ii)
each contract for goods to be awarded under Part C.1 hereof estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; (iii) the first two (2) contracts
for goods to be awarded under Part C.1 hereof, regardless of the price; (iv)
each contract for works to be awarded under Part C.1 hereof estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more; and (v) the first three (3)
contracts for works for the execution of Part B.1 of the Project, regardless
of the price, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contracts required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.

    (b)   With respect to each contract for works to be awarded under Part
C.1 hereof estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (b), 2 (c), 2 (d) and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.

    (c)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraphs, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

    (d)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (c) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

2.  The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants (i) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) who shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents



have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to:
(i) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $75,000 equivalent each; or (ii) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $20,000 each. However, said
exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (iv) amendments to contracts for consulting firms raising the
contract value to $75,000 equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to $20,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5

                          Implementation Program

Section A:      Institutional Arrangements

1.  Ministry of Education and Sciences (MES)

    The MES shall have overall responsibility for implementation and
oversight of the Project.

2.  Project Management Unit (PMU)

    (a)   For the purposes of ensuring the proper coordination and execution
of the Project, a PMU shall be established within the MES.  A Project
Management Committee headed by a Project Director shall be established
within the PMU and shall include representatives from each of the Project
implementing agencies referred to in paragraph 3 of this Section A and
technical specialists in adequate number and with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank.  Specifically, the Borrower shall take
all adequate measures to ensure that the PMU is maintained throughout the
period of Project implementation under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank and is provided with staff, financial and physical resources
adequate to carry out its responsibilities.

    (b)   The PMU shall be vested specific responsibility for, inter alia:
(i) timely and prompt planning and implementation of Project activities;
(ii) closely monitoring progress in the implementation of Project activities
and, as necessary, promptly taking up with the MES any potential constraints
hindering Project execution; (iii) liaising with the Borrower’s implementing
agencies and the Bank; (iv) financially monitoring the Project, including
Project expenditures and Project costs; (v) collecting, gathering and
consolidating Project evaluation reports from the Project implementing
agencies, and, on those bases, preparing the annual and mid-term Project
progress reports for submission to the MES’, the Project implementing
agencies’ and the Bank’s review, not later than September 30 in each Fiscal
Year; (vi) jointly preparing and carrying out with the Bank the annual and
mid-term Project implementation reviews referred to in Section C hereof; and
(vii) advising on, and overseeing, procurement of goods and services
required for the Project and ensuring compliance with the Bank’s Guidelines
thereon.

3.  Project Implementing Agencies

    The Borrower shall take all required steps to ensure that specific
implementation responsibilities shall be assigned and executed as follows,
precisely, that: (i) Part A.1 of the Project is carried out by the DGFC in
collaboration with the INSE; (ii) Part A.3 of the Project is carried out by
the DPSI; (iii) coordination and implementation of all training activities
are carried out by the DGFC; (iv) the DBE carry out the civil works required
for the Project and assure the acquisition of equipment for Part B.3 of the
Project; (v) Project activities designed to strengthen the MES’ capabilities
to maintain equipment are the responsibility of the DBE; and (vi) Project
activities to strengthen computer teaching are coordinated and implemented
by the INBMI; in all cases, with the required assistance of the relevant



services of the MES as provided in the Borrower’s Decree No. 92-1929 dated
November 2, 1992.

Section B:      Project Monitoring and Evaluation

1.  The Borrower shall cause the PMU and each Project implementing agency:

    (a)   to maintain operational procedures adequate to enable them to
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with the Impact Indicators, the progress
achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Project; and

    (b)   to prepare and furnish to the MES, not later than September 15 in
each Fiscal Year beginning with its Fiscal Year after the Fiscal Year ending
on December 31, 1994, a Project evaluation report, in accordance with the
evaluation guidelines established for the relevant evaluation period
pursuant to the provisions of Section C (a) (iv) hereof, on the Project
activities for which the PMU or the Project implementing agency, as the case
may be, is responsible.

2.  With a view to allow the timely execution of the monitoring and
evaluation activities described in paragraph (1) above, the Borrower shall
define, or cause to be defined, to the satisfaction of the Bank: (i) not
later than December 31, 1994, the Baseline Values necessary for the
application of five (5) of the Impact Indicators; (ii) not later than
December 31, 1995, the Baseline Values necessary for the application of four
(4) additional Impact Indicators; (iii) the Baseline Values necessary for
the application of eight (8) further Impact Indicators upon the completion
of the studies necessary therefor; and (iv) not later than December 31,
1996, the Target Values necessary for the application of nineteen (19) of
the Impact Indicators.

Section C:      Project Implementation Reviews

    (a)   The Borrower shall cause the PMU to prepare and submit to the MES,
the Project implementing agencies and the Bank, not later than September 30
in each of its Fiscal Year beginning with its Fiscal Year after the Fiscal
Year ending on December 31, 1994, a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed, on, inter alia: (i) the
progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Project during the
preceding Fiscal Year or previous mid-term Project implementation period,
as the case may be, with special focus on Project achievements measured on
the basis of the Impact Indicators and the agreed Project objectives and
time schedule; (ii) proposed revisions to be introduced to the Impact
Indicators; (iii) a detailed review of incurred and prospective annual
recurrent and investment expenditures for implemented activities; (iv)
guidelines for the preparation of the Project evaluation reports referred
to in Section B (b) hereof; and (v) as applicable, a proposed annual Project
implementation work program for the following Fiscal Year, including a
detailed breakdown of the Borrower’s and the Bank’s financing share
necessary therefor, or/and a proposal for restructuring any component of the
Project;

    (b)   Not later than October 31 in each Fiscal Year, the MES and the
Bank shall exchange views on, respectively, the progress reports for the
preceding Fiscal Year or the previous mid-term Project implementation
period; and

    (c)   Promptly thereafter, the Borrower shall: (i) cause the PMU to
introduce such modifications into the annual and mid-term progress reports,
as the case may be, and the Impact Indicators, as shall have been agreed
upon with the Bank, and to submit the finalized reports to the Bank not
later than December 31 in each Fiscal Year; and (ii) take all action which
the MES and the Bank shall have agreed is required on the part of the
Borrower to ensure the successful and timely implementation of the Project
and to achieve the objectives thereof.

Section D:      Criteria for Site Selection for Schools

    (a)   In order to maximize the benefits to be derived from the Project,
the Borrower shall at all times select (i) sites for the construction of
schools under Part B.1 of the Project; and (ii) basic education schools and
secondary education schools to be rehabilitated under Part B.2 of the



Project, so as to locate and rehabilitate the schools where: (A) the
projected need of additional pupil-places is the highest; and/or (B) the
overall and female enrollment rates are the lowest.

    (b)   Furthermore, the Borrower shall take all measures necessary to
ensure that the basic education schools and secondary education schools
located in the areas (A) and (B) of paragraph (a) above are provided at all
times with adequate boarding facilities, as the same shall be deemed
necessary by the Borrower.

Section E:      Procurement and Consultants’ Services
    In order to assure a timely start-up of Project implementation
activities, the Borrower shall submit, or cause to be submitted, to the Bank
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.02 of this Agreement:
    (a)   not later than June 30, 1995: (i) the proposal evaluations and
evaluation reports for the consultants’ services required to carry out Parts
A.1 and A.3 of the Project; and (ii) proposed awards for two (2) bids for
the supply of instructional materials required under Part B.3 of the
Project; and

    (b)   not later than September 30, 1995, the report on the evaluation
and comparison of bids for proposed awards for three (3) bids for
construction of civil works required for the schools under Part B.1 of the
Project.
                                SCHEDULE 6

                              Special Account

1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.

         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been



                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.

    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.