World Bank Document


                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3717 PE

                              Loan Agreement

                    (Transport Rehabilitation Project)

                                  between

                             REPUBLIC OF PERU

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated June 3, 1994

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3717 PE
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) a loan (the KfW Loan) in an amount equivalent to DM
65,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (the KfW Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and KfW;

      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the OPEC Fund a loan (the
OPEC Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the OPEC
Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the OPEC
Fund; and

      (D)   Parts B and D of the Project will be carried out by,
respectively, Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles S.A. (ENAFER) and the
Municipalidad de Lima Metropolitana (MLM) with the Borrower’s assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ENAFER
and MLM a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreements (as hereinafter
defined) of even date herewith;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
      Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Beneficiaries" means applicants for Subloans who meet the
eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 2 to the MLM Project Agreement;

      (b)   "CMCPL" means Caja Municipal de Credito Popular de Lima, an
agency of the Borrower established pursuant to Law No. 10769 dated January
20, 1947, as amended;

      (c)   "CMCPL Directive" means the directive, including the model loan
contract, to be issued by CMCPL setting forth the operational procedures and
terms and conditions for Subloans to be made under Part D.2 of the Project;

      (d)   "CORPAC" means Corporacion Peruana de Aeropuertos y Aviacion
Comercial, created by Legislative Decree No. 99 of May 29, 1981;

      (e)   "Department" means each of the departments referred to in
Article 189 of the Borrower’s constitution;

      (f)   "DM" means Deutsche Mark, the currency of the Federal Republic
of Germany;

      (g)   "ENAFER" means Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles S.A., created
by Legislative Decree No. 102 of May 29, 1981;

      (h)   "ENAFER Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and ENAFER of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the ENAFER Project Agreement;

      (i)   "ENAFER Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ENAFER pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the ENAFER Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (j)   "Environmental Manual" means the manual for contractors to be
approved by the Bank for use in the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.06(a) of this Agreement;

      (k)   "Highway Repair and Maintenance Project" means the Borrower’s
project for repair and maintenance of national roads as described in Annex



A of the Loan Agreement dated January 7, 1992 between the Borrower and the
Inter-American Development Bank;

      (l)   "km" means kilometers;

      (m)   "Lima Airport" means Aeropuerto Internacional Jorge Chavez owned
by the Borrower and operated by CORPAC;

      (n)   "Minister" means the Minister in charge of MTCC;

      (o)   "MLM" means the Municipalidad de Lima Metropolitana, governed
by Law No. 23853, published in El Peruano of June 9, 1984;

      (p)   "MLM Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
MLM of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the MLM Project Agreement;

      (q)   "MLM Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and MLM pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the MLM Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (r)   "MTCC" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport,
Communications, Housing and Construction;

      (s)   "National Roads Laboratory" means the Direccion de Geologia y
Mecanica de Suelos of MTCC;

      (t)   "PCU" means the "Unidad de Rehabilitacion de Infraestructura de
Transportes", a project coordination unit established within MTCC prior to
the date of this Agreement and referred to in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement;

      (u)   "Project Agreements" means the ENAFER Project Agreement and the
MLM Project Agreement;

      (v)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated September 2, 1993 and September 17, 1993 between the Borrower
and the Bank;

      (w)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(c) of this Agreement; and

      (x)   "Subloan" means a loan made or to be made by CMCPL to
Beneficiaries under Part D.2 of the Project.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
one hundred fifty million dollars ($150 million equivalent), being the sum
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by
the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.



      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.



      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end:

            (i)   shall, through the PCU, coordinate all Parts of the
                  Project and carry out Parts A, C and E of the Project
                  with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                  appropriate administrative, transportation, engineering,
                  financial and environmental practices and shall provide,
                  promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                  other resources required for such Parts of the Project;
                  and

           (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
                  obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
                  cause ENAFER and MLM to perform all their obligations set
                  forth in, respectively, the ENAFER Project Agreement and
                  the MLM Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be
                  taken all action, including the provision of funds,
                  facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
                  appropriate to enable ENAFER and MLM to perform such
                  obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
                  action which would prevent or interfere with such
                  performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
to ENAFER and MLM under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and, respectively, ENAFER and MLM, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the ENAFER
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the MLM Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the ENAFER
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the MLM Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or any
provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A, C and
E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Parts B and D of the Project shall be carried
out by, respectively, ENAFER and MLM pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreements.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain in MTCC the project
coordination unit with staff in sufficient numbers and with qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Bank in accordance with terms of reference
for the PCU acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia,
responsibility for overall Project coordination (including the preparation
of the reports referred to in Section 3.07 (a) below, processing of
disbursement requests and management of the Special Account) and for the
execution of Parts A, C and E of the Project (including the procurement of
goods, works and services, progress monitoring, supervision of suppliers,
contractors and consultants, and management of the account referred to in
Section 4.02 of this Agreement).



      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall ensure proper coor- dination of
the activities under Part C of the Project with the operations of CORPAC at
Lima Airport and, to that end, shall establish a coordinating committee to
be chaired by the Minister or Vice-Minister of MTCC.

      (b)   Prior to signing the construction contract for the runway
rehabilitation of Lima Airport under Part C (1) of the Project, the Borrower
shall: (i) engage an independent expert to advise the Minister or the Vice-
Minister for Transport; and (ii) engage consultants for construction
supervision.

      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall require all contractors carrying
out works under Part A of the Project to use an environ- mental manual
acceptable to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia: (i) the
applicable environmental and natural resource legislation and regulations;
(ii) explicit prohibitions and environmental behavior guidelines for work
crews, especially for work along sensitive areas; (iii) procedures for
proper selection and management of quarries, borrow pits, gravel extraction
along rivers, and other sources of construction material, and eventual
rehabilitation of affected areas through soil replacement and revegetation;
(iv) procedures for selection of camp sites, management of camp wastes, and
guidelines for camp dismantling and abandonment; (v) procedures for proper
disposal of excavated earth and spoil material to avoid contaminating
streams or causing other unnecessary damage; and (vi) procedures for proper
disposal of waste from construction machinery and equipment.

      (b)   The Borrower shall maintain within MTCC an environmental office
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter
alia, the following: (i) advising the Minister on environmental concerns in
the transport sector; (ii) establishing environmental policies and
procedures for transport projects; (iii) incorporating environmental
objectives in feasibility and design studies; (iv) ensuring that all bidding
documents and contracts for Part A of the Project incorporate the
Environmental Manual; (v) monitoring compliance with the Environmental
Manual by contractors; and (vi) monitoring environmental factors and
maintaining a data base. Said office shall be staffed with full-time
personnel in such number and with such qualifications and experience as
shall be acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01
of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, through the PCU:

      (a)   prepare quarterly progress reports for all Parts of the Project,
including the Parts executed by ENAFER and MLM, in a format acceptable to
the Bank (said format to include the following subjects: (i) progress
achieved against agreed implementation indicators and disbursement
schedules; (ii) updated implementation indicators and disbursement schedules
for the remainder of the Project; (iii) status of compliance with the
covenants contained in the Loan Agreement, the ENAFER Project Agreement and
the MLM Project Agreement; and (iv) detailed work programs and action plans
for the next two quarters and forward these reports to the Bank within one
month of the end of each quarter;

      (b)   annually conduct with the Bank, ENAFER and MLM a formal review
of the performance of the Project and the attainment of its objectives and
invite KfW and the OPEC Fund to participate in such reviews;

      (c)   organize a thorough mid-term review of the Project with the
Bank, ENAFER and MLM at a time not later than thirty months after the date
of this Agreement in order to: (i) assess progress in Project implementation
on the basis of implementation indicators acceptable to the Bank; and (ii)
consider proposals for restructuring or reorienting the Project; and invite
KfW and the OPEC Fund to participate in such review; and

      (d)   promptly take all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as
shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the
attainment of its objectives if, as a result of any of the annual reviews
referred to in subparagraph (b) above or the mid-term review referred to in
subparagraph (c) above, progress in the execution of the Project or in the
achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.08. The Borrower, through the PCU, shall forward to the Bank



for its review and comment an action plan for improving MTCC’s roads
administration and finance by December 31, 1994.

      Section 3.09. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01
(a) (ii) of this Agreement, for the purpose of the execution of Part B (2)
of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the reform of ENAFER shall
be based on a division of ENAFER into at least three separate operating
divisions, with the eventual division of ENAFER into legally separate
companies at which time the Borrower, together with ENAFER, shall present
to the Bank a proposal for the modification of this Agreement, the ENAFER
Project Agreement and the ENAFER Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

      Section 3.10. For the purpose of the execution of Part A (2) of the
Project, derelict bridges whose reconstruction is estimated to cost more
than $500,000 equivalent shall not be replaced by MTCC unless the
reconstruction will yield an internal economic rate of return in excess of
20 percent, said rate to be calculated in accordance with a methodology
acceptable to the Bank, and MTCC shall furnish the Bank evidence thereof
satifactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.11. The Borrower, through the PCU, shall employ and then
second to ENAFER for the execution of Part B(1) of the Project, a
coordinator, a mechanical engineer and a track engineer, all with terms of
reference and qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.  The
terms of reference for the coordinator shall include responsibility for: (a)
management of the procurement of works and goods for Part B(1) of the
Project, including quality control of goods received and their installation;
and (b) payment of suppliers and contractors for Part B(1) of the Project
in accordance with their contract.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of Parts A, C and E of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out said Parts of the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for the
                  Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,



                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall open a separate account in local
currency in a commercial bank and shall deposit at the beginning of each
month into that account such amounts as shall be necessary to cover
anticipated payments during that month for expenditures on account of goods,
works or services procured or to be procured under Parts A, C and E of the
Project.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall deposit at the beginning of each
month in the local currency account referred to in Section 4.02 of the
ENAFER Project Agreement such amounts as shall be necessary to cover
anticipated payments during that month for expenditures on account of goods,
works or services procured or to be procured under Part B.1 of the Project
and any expenditures required for the execution of Part B.2 of the Project.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain its policy of levying
road user charges in excess of road maintenance expenditures; and (b)
present each year a budget request to its legislature in an amount
acceptable to the Bank, said approval to be sought not later than October
31 of each year and said amount to be not less than $50,000,000 equivalent,
for the purpose of financing the maintenance of national roads other than
those covered under Part A of the Project and those covered under the
Highway Repair and Maintenance Project and thereafter release such funds for
such purpose in timely fashion.

      Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, on a schedule acceptable to the
Bank, assume ENAFER’s debt and provide, or cause to be provided, the
necessary funds for clearance of ENAFER’s arrears with utility companies.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   ENAFER shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the ENAFER Project Agreement. In such case, the Bank may, after consultation
with and by notice to the Borrower, only suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for
expenditures incurred with respect to Part B of the Project.

      (b)   MLM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the MLM Project Agreement. In such case, the Bank may, after consultation
with and by notice to the Borrower, only suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for
expenditures incurred with respect to Part D of the Project.

      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ENAFER or MLM will be able to perform their
obligations under, respectively, the ENAFER Project Agreement or the MLM
Project Agreement. For the purpose of this paragraph, the division of ENAFER
into legally separate companies as well as the privatization of ENAFER or
of any such successor companies shall be deemed to be an extraordinary
situation.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,



the following additional events are specified namely that the events
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the local currency accounts referred to in Section 4.02 of this
Agreement, Section 3.02 of the MLM Project Agreement and Section 4.02 of the
ENAFER Project Agreement have been opened; and

      (b)   the PCU has been fully staffed in accordance with the provisions
of Section 3.04 of this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the ENAFER Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ENAFER, has been duly executed, and is legally binding upon
ENAFER in accordance with its terms; and

      (b)   that the MLM Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by MLM, has been duly executed, and is legally binding upon MLM in
accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date September 1, 1994 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VII

                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Economy and Finance
            Ministry of Economy and Finance
            Jiron Junin 319
            Lima 1, Peru

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.



                        REPUBLIC OF PERU

                        By /s/ Ricardo Luna Mendoza
                        Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                        Regional Vice President
                        Latin America and the Caribbean

                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                               Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated           % of
                               (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                       Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed

(1)     Civil works under         63,000,000        80%
    Part A of the
    Project

(2)     Civil works under          1,100,000        80%
    Part B of the
    Project

(3)     Civil works under         17,000,000        70%
    Part C of the
    Project

(4)     Civil works under          1,700,000        70%
    Part D of the
    Project

(5)     Equipment and              3,100,000        100% of foreign
    materials under                                 expenditures and
    Parts A and C                                   75% of local
    of the Project                                  expenditures

(6)     Equipment and             29,000,000        100% of foreign
    materials under                                 expenditures and
    Part B of the                                   75% of local
    Project                                         expenditures

(7)     Subloans under               600,000        100% of amounts
    Part D of the                                   disbursed by CMCPL
    Project                                         under Subloans

(8)     Design studies,           21,000,000        100%
    construction
    supervision,
    other consult-
    ing services
    and training

(9)     Refunding of               1,500,000        Amounts due
    Project                                         pursuant to
    Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (b)



    Advance                                         of this Agreement

(10)Unallocated                   12,000,000
                                 ___________

        TOTAL                    150,000,000
                                 ===========

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures:

    (a)   prior to the date of this agreement, except that withdrawals under
Categories (2) and (6) in an aggregate amount not exceeding $700,000
equivalent and under Category (8) in an aggregate amount not exceeding
$500,000 equivalent may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after December 1, 1993;

    (b)   under categories (2) and (6) of the table in paragraph 1 above
until: (i) the Bank has received the action plan, acceptable to it, referred
to in Section 2.07 of the ENAFER Project Agreement; (ii) the Bank has
received the audit report for 1993 in accordance with the provisions of
Section 4.01(b) of the ENAFER Project Agreement; and (iii) the ENAFER
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
ENAFER and the Bank has received an opinion or opinions, within the meaning
of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, that the ENAFER Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
ENAFER, has been duly executed, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
ENAFER in accordance with its terms;

    (c)   under categories (4) and (7) of the table in paragraph 1 above
until the MLM Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and MLM and the Bank has received an opinion or opinions, within
the meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, that the MLM
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and MLM, has been duly executed, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and MLM in accordance with its terms; and

    (d)   under category (7) of the table in paragraph 1 above, in addition
to the conditions specified in the preceding paragraph (c), until the CMCPL
Directive has been issued in accordance with the provisions of Secton 2.07
of the MLM Project Agreement.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
goods not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, works not exceeding $1,000,000
equivalent, and services not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are: (i) to rehabilitate essential
transport infrastructure; (ii) to implement institutional reforms in the
road and railway subsectors with a view to achieving improved resource use
and sustainable development; and (iii) to lay the groundwork for future
projects to improve road management, to increase private participation in
the transport sector, and to improve mobility of the poor.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time



to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance

(1)       Road Rehabilitation

    (a)   Rehabilitation of the following national road sections:

          (i)   Corral Quemado - Rio Nieva (about 176 km)

         (ii)   Rio Nieva - Rioja (about 100 km)

        (iii)   Rioja - Tarapoto (about 135 km)

         (iv)   Huanuco - Tingo Maria (about 120 km)

          (v)   Tarma - La Merced (about 72 km)

         (vi)   La Merced - Satipo (about 122 km)

    (b)   Detailed engineering for rehabilitation of the following national
road sections:

          (i)   Tingo Maria - Pucallpa (about 256 km)

         (ii)   Villa Rica - Puente Chanchamayo (about 38 km)

        (iii)   such other national road sections as may be acceptable to
                the Bank.

(2)       Bridge Program

    Acquisition of a minimum stock of Bailey bridges, dismantling and
transport to an appropriate storage location of temporary Bailey bridges and
their replacement by permanent structures, and, on the basis of the findings
of a general study of the physical condition and priorities for
reconstruction of existing bridges in the regions served by the roads to be
rehabilitated under Part A (1) above, the reconstruction of derelict
bridges.

(3)       Road Maintenance Program

    Execution of a pilot road maintenance program on about 620 km of roads
feeding directly into the Corral Quemado-Rioja-Tarapoto corridor with a view
to: (i) provide a basis for estimating unit costs to perform typical
maintenance activities by contract; (ii) test and promote the use of micro-
enterprises for road maintenance; (iii) examine the deterioration pattern
of various road surface types under alternative maintenance strategies; (iv)
provide a focus for field training; and (v) lay the foundation for a
decentralized road maintenance strategy.

(4)       Traffic Safety Program

    (a)   Formulation of a comprehensive traffic safety strategy.

    (b)   Acquisition and use of urgently needed safety materials.

    (c)   Initiation of the most urgently needed investments in safety
improvements in accordance with the strategy established pursuant to
subparagraph (a) above.

(5)  Institutional Improvement Program

    Improvement of the capacity of the General Directorate of Roads of MTCC
to plan, cost, carry out and control primary road network maintenance
through, inter alia: (a) the carrying out of a network inventory including
a pavement surface condition survey and traffic volume counts over the
national road system; (b) esta- blishment of agencies responsible for
detailed design, budgeting, implementation and monitoring of maintenance
activities at the level of each Department; and (c) strengthening of the
National Roads Laboratory in terms of equipment and staffing.



Part B:   Railway Rehabilitation and Restructuring

    Preparation for the privatization of ENAFER through:

    (a)   execution of the most urgently needed investments to keep ENAFER
operating during the preparation of its privatization, including: (i) track
rehabilitation; (ii) locomotive and wagon rehabilitation; (iii) lengthening
of switchbacks; (iv) acquisition and use of workshop and track maintenance
equipment; (v) tele- communication works; and (vi) execution of an
environmental and safety study of the Cuzco - Machu Picchu line; and

    (b)   execution of a plan of action for the reform of ENAFER’s
managerial, operational and financial framework.

Part C:   Lima Airport Rehabilitation

    (a)   Rehabilitation of the main runway.

    (b)   Rehabilitation of the taxiway.

    (c)   Installation of lighting and instrument landing systems.

Part D:   Pilot Project for Non-motorized Transport

    Execution of a pilot project for non-motorized transport in the Lima-
Callao industrial area, consisting of:

    (a)   construction of four trunk bicycle-ways together with bicycle-
lanes providing connections to low and middle income residential areas and
parking facilities;

    (b)   provision of Sub-loans for the purchase of low-cost bicycles
through the Caja Municipal de Credito Popular de Lima; and

    (c)   carrying out of educational and promotional campaigns.

Part E:   Studies, Technical Assistance and Training

    (a)   Policy and Investment Studies

    Execution of a program of policy and investment studies       with
respect to: (i) road administration and finance; (ii) organizational reform
of MTCC; and (iii) preparation of future transportation projects.

    (b)   Project Support

    Execution of a program of technical assistance to the MTCC, the PCU,
ENAFER and MLM in direct support of the execution of the Project.

    (c)   Training

    Execution of a training program, both in Peru and abroad, in road
management, railway management and privatization, and other areas necessary
for the proper execution of the Project.

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

December 15, 1999                        2,840,000
June 15, 2000                            2,945,000
December 15, 2000                        3,050,000
June 15, 2001                            3,165,000
December 15, 2001                        3,280,000
June 15, 2002                            3,395,000
December 15, 2002                        3,520,000



June 15, 2003                            3,650,000
December 15, 2003                        3,780,000
June 15, 2004                            3,920,000
December 15, 2004                        4,060,000
June 15, 2005                            4,210,000
December 15, 2005                        4,360,000
June 15, 2006                            4,520,000
December 15, 2006                        4,685,000
June 15, 2007                            4,855,000
December 15, 2007                        5,030,000
June 15, 2008                            5,215,000
December 15, 2008                        5,405,000
June 15, 2009                            5,600,000
December 15, 2009                        5,805,000
June 15, 2010                            6,015,000December 15, 2010                        
6,235,000
June 15, 2011                            6,460,000
December 15, 2011                        6,695,000
June 15, 2012                            6,940,000
December 15, 2012                        7,190,000
June 15, 2013                            7,450,000
December 15, 2013                        7,725,000
June 15, 2014                            8,000,000

_____________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

    Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                   Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                   by:

Not more than three years                      0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                      0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                        0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                     0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not                     0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before                      1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD



Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

2.  Bidders for works to be carried out under Parts A and C of the Project
and which are estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 or more shall
be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.

3.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Peru may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.  Specialized equipment with a small number of suppliers may be procured
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list
satisfactory to the Bank of qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and
II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2.  Works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $3,000,000, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $19,000,000, and equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 per contract, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.  Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, and equipment and
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three contractors or three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Review of prequalification:

    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A
(2) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

2.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

    (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more; (ii) each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (iii) the first contract for
works and the first contract for goods estimated to cost less than the
amounts set forth in, respectively, subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above, the



procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.

    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.

    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

3.  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A, C and E of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to:
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (8)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

    (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5
million to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened and that procedures for its operation,
satisfactory to the Bank, have been established, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account



such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.

         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions



of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.