World Bank Document


                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3647 MOR

                          Loan Agreement

                (Environmental Management Project)

                              between

                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated  May 20, 1994

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3647 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1994, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Environmental Management Program" means the program of
policies, objectives and actions designed to strengthen the insti-
tutional and legal framework for the protection and management of
the Borrower’s environment, set forth in a letter dated August 19,
1993, from the Borrower to the Bank;

      (b)   "National Environmental Council" means the council
established pursuant to Decree No. 2-79-347 dated May 12, 1980 of
the Borrower’s Prime Minister, published in the Official Bulletin
No. 3527 dated June 4, 1980, as the same may be amended from time to
time;

      (c)   "Under-Secretariat of the Environment" means the Under-
Secretariat responsible for the management of the environment, which
reports to the Minister of the Interior and Information; and

      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of six million dollars ($6,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain a special deposit account in a currency and a
financial institution, both acceptable to the Bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower



shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the Environmental
Management Program and in conformity with appropriate economic,
financial, administrative, technical and environmental management
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,



facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the Bank may otherwise
agree:

      (a)   the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain at
all times during the Project implementation period, an inter-
ministerial steering committee with membership and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank to be responsible for the
oversight and coordination of Project implementation;

      (b)   under Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall take all
action required to ensure that the National Environmental Council
shall be restructured, not later than July 1, 1994, with membership
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and in a manner
designed to enable said Council properly to assume responsibility
for developing a nationwide consensus on environmental policies and
strategies and for providing expert advice and guidance to the
Borrower on environmental issues; and

      (c)   the Borrower shall:  (i)  maintain operational proce-
dures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, in accordance
with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project; (ii) prepare and furnish to the
Bank not later than September 30, 1996, a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on the
conclusions and recommendations indicated by the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) of
this paragraph, including any actions proposed to further the
progress in the carrying out of the Project; (iii) afford the Bank
a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the
report prepared pursuant to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph;
and (iv) thereafter, promptly take all such action to further the
progress in the carrying out of the Project, as shall have been
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.



      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   The inter-ministerial steering committee referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement shall have been established in
accordance with the provisions of said Section and shall be
operational.

      (b)   A draft Decree for the restructuring of the National
Environmental Council in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement shall have been prepared and submitted to
the Borrower’s Council of Government for approval.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministere des Finances
            Rabat
            Morocco

                                           Telex:

                                             32715M



                                             31936M

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                         By /s/ Mohamed Benaissa
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods                      1,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Consultants’               4,800,000        100%
    services and
    training

(3) Unallocated                  200,000



                                ________

         TOTAL                 6,000,000
                               =========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in strengthening
(1) the Borrower’s institutional capabilities in respect of
environmental protection and management and (2) the legal framework
governing the protection and management of the Borrower’s
environment, all in accordance with the Environmental Management
Program.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      Carrying out, on a pilot basis, of a program to strengthen the
institutional capabilities of the Borrower’s national and local
administrations in respect of environmental protection and
management, consisting of:

      (1)   (a)    the development by the Under-Secretariat of the
Environment, in coordination with the Borrower’s Ministries of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform and of Public Works, and the Wilaya
of Fes, and the application, of suitable operational procedures and
guidelines for the development of work programs for the imple-
mentation of environmental management activities under the
respective responsibilities of said Ministries and Wilaya and for
the exchange among said Ministries and Wilaya of information
relating to environmental protection and management, and (b) the
development and implementation of the work programs referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Part A (1);

      (2)   the development of a nationwide system designed to
enable the Under-Secretariat of the Environment properly to monitor
the environment through the collection and analysis of data relating
to the environment, the classification of environmental resources,
the evaluation of activities affecting the environment and the
surveillance and forecasting of the quality of air, water and soil;
and

      (3)   the development and implementation of training programs
in environmental and financial management, to strengthen the skills
of the staff of the Borrower’s administrations and agencies involved
in environmental management; and the provision of equipment,
vehicles and computer hardware and software required for the proper
carrying out by said administrations of their respective
environmental protection and management responsibilities.

Part B:



      The carrying out of a program to strengthen the National
Environmental Council, including (1) the restructuring of its
membership and the strengthening of commissions to assist it in the
performance of its responsibilities, (2) the definition of
operational policies and procedures for it and said commissions, (3)
the provision of budgetary resources required for the proper
operation of said Council and commissions, (4) the provision of
training to members of said Council and commissions, and (5) the
provision of equipment required therefor.

Part C:

      Carrying out of a program to strengthen the legal framework
for the protection and management of the environment, consisting of:

(1)   (a)   the preparation and application of a suitable legal
framework and operational policies and procedures to (i) govern the
carrying out of environmental impact assessments of public and
private sector investments, (ii) govern the manufacture, importa-
tion, use and disposal of toxic chemicals and the treatment and
disposal of hazardous wastes, and (iii) establish an integrated
pollution control system designed to mitigate air emissions and
solid and liquid effluents from specific installations through the
granting of permits for the operation of said installations; and (b)
the updating and strengthening of other selected aspects of the
legal framework governing the environment;

(2)   the development and carrying out of (a) workshops designed to
facilitate a participatory process of involving local governments,
industries, and non-governmental organizations in the preparation of
the legal framework referred to in Part C (1) of this Schedule and
(b) training programs in environmental law for staff of the
Borrower’s administrations; and

(3)   the provision of computer hardware and software required for
the activities referred to in Parts C (1) and C (2) of this
Schedule.

Part D:

(1)   Development and carrying out of workshops to enhance the
skills of public and private firms in respect of procedures,
technologies and methodologies designed to abate pollution.

(2)   Carrying out of (a) studies to identify, evaluate and
recommend appropriate economic and financial incentives and pilot
projects designed to abate pollution, (b) a study to identify,
evaluate and recommend measures to increase private sector
participation in environmental management activities, such as
recycling and solid waste management, (c) environmental audits of
selected installations and (d) pollution load assessments in
selected provinces.

Part E:

      Development and carrying out of a program to educate the
general public in, and increase its awareness of, environmental
issues and their solutions.

Part F:

(1)   Development of (a) a nationwide information network designed
to provide and analyze data relating to the environment and
technological solutions to environmental issues, and (b) a
specialized center for documentation relating to environmental
matters, and the provision of training, vehicles and equipment
required therefor.

(2)   Carrying out of a study to establish a fee-for-service system
for the use of the information network referred to in Part F (1) of
this Schedule.



                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

      June 1, 1999                           110,000
      December 1, 1999                       115,000
      June 1, 2000                           120,000
      December 1, 2000                       125,000
      June 1, 2001                           130,000
      December 1, 2001                       135,000
      June 1, 2002                           140,000
      December 1, 2002                       145,000
      June 1, 2003                           150,000
      December 1, 2003                       155,000
      June 1, 2004                           160,000
      December 1, 2004                       170,000
      June 1, 2005                           175,000
      December 1, 2005                       180,000
      June 1, 2006                           185,000
      December 1, 2006                       195,000
      June 1, 2007                           200,000
      December 1, 2007                       210,000
      June 1, 2008                           215,000
      December 1, 2008                       225,000
      June 1, 2009                           235,000
      December 1, 2009                       240,000
      June 1, 2010                           250,000
      December 1, 2010                       260,000
      June 1, 2011                           270,000
      December 1, 2011                       280,000
      June 1, 2012                           290,000
      December 1, 2012                       300,000
      June 1, 2013                           310,000
      December 1, 2013                       325,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity



More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

Local Shopping

      Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $250,000, and
books and other publications, regardless of the cost thereof, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods procured in



accordance with the provisions of Part A of this Section I, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and



      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and



to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.