World Bank Document


                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3845 IND

                              Loan Agreement

                  (Second Rural Electrification Project)

                                  between

                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                           Dated April 20, 1995

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3845 IND

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 20, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;

      (B)  Part B of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower and Part A of the Project will be carried out by
Perseroan Terbatas Perusahaan Perseroan (PERSERO) P.T.
Perusahaan Listrik Negara (PLN as herein defined) with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to PLN a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
PLN;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
      sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to
      read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
                  arisen under which any further withdrawals
                  under the Loan would be inconsistent with
                  the provisions of Article III, Section 3
                  of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "DGEED" means the Directorate General of Electricity
and Energy Development of the Borrower’s Ministry of Mines and
Energy or any successor or successors thereto.

      (b)   "Governing Laws" means the Borrower’s Law No. 19 of
1960, Law No. 9 of 1969, Law No. 15 of 1985, Government
Regulation No. 3 of 1983, Government Regulation No. 28 of 1983,
Government Regulation No. 10 of 1989, Government Regulation No.
23 of 1994, Ministry of Justice Decree No. 02-11.519-
HT.01.01.TH.94, dated August 1, 1994, and any other laws and
regulations in force at the time of this Agreement governing
the organization and operations of PLN, as any of them may be
amended or supplemented from time to time.

      (c)   "PLN" means Perseroan Terbatas Perusahaan Perseroan
(PERSERO) P.T. Perusahaan Listrik Negara (abbreviated as P.T.
PLN (PERSERO)), a limited liability company established and
existing under the laws of the Borrower, or any successor or
successors thereto.

      (d)   "PMU" means the Project Management Unit referred to
in paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.

      (e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and PLN of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.

      (f)   "Repelita VI" means the Borrower’s five-year
development plan for its fiscal years 1994/95 to 1998/99.

      (g)   "Special Account" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

      (h)   "Subprojects" means the subprojects under Parts A.1
and A.3 of the Project.

      (i)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PLN pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means
the loan provided for under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.



                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of three hundred ninety eight
million dollars ($398,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

      (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
            the date immediately preceding each date specified
            in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
            the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
            signed.

      (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
            reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
            percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
            of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
            excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the
            Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s
            investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
            Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
            determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
            (a) of this Section.



      (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
            second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end:

            (i)   shall carry out Part B of the Project with due
                  diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                  appropriate administrative, financial and
                  environmental practices, and shall provide,
                  promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources required for said
                  Part of the Project; and

            (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of
                  its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
                  the Borrower shall cause PLN to perform all its
                  obligations set forth in the Project Agreement,
                  shall take or cause to be taken all action,
                  including the provision of funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources, necessary or
                  appropriate to enable PLN to perform such
                  obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
                  taken any action which would prevent or
                  interfere with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend to PLN out of the proceeds
of the Loan an amount equivalent to $395,800,000 under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and PLN, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including the following principal terms and
conditions: (i) PLN shall pay interest on the principal amount
of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to



time at a variable rate per annum equal to the sum of the
following: the interest rate calculated in accordance with
Section 2.05 of this Agreement, plus one half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum; (ii) PLN shall pay to the Borrower a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Subsidiary
Loan not withdrawn from time to time at the rate payable by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (iii) the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over 20
years including five years’ grace; and (iv) the foreign
exchange risk shall be borne by PLN.

      (c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in
carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.

      (b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of
this Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines
requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (i)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (ii) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms;
(iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (iv) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Part A of the Project shall be carried out by PLN
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) undertake and
complete a study on private power development in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) upon
completion of the said study, furnish the same to, and discuss
the results and recommendations thereof, with the Bank; and (c)
based on the said study’s results and recommendations and
subsequent review, comments and discussions prepare draft rules
and procedures to govern private sector participation including
the solicitation and evaluation of all forms of proposals for
private power supply, furnish the said draft rules and
procedures for review and comments to the Bank, and (d) by



December 31, 1995, finalize, adopt and enforce the same taking
into account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) undertake and
complete a study on regulatory reform in the power sector in
accordance with terms of reference and in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank; (b) upon completion of the said study, furnish the
same for review and comments to, and discuss the results and
recommendations thereof with, the Bank; and (c) based on the
said study’s results and recommendations and subsequent review,
comments and discussions: (i) prepare draft regulations for the
power sector; (ii) furnish the said draft regulations for
review and comments to the Bank; and (iii) by June 30, 1996,
finalize, adopt and enforce the same taking into account the
comments, if any, thereon by the Bank.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall jointly with PLN: (a)
furnish to the Bank: (i) such periodic reports concerning the
reorganization of PLN as reasonably requested by the Bank; and
(ii) a draft time bound corporate reorganization and
restructuring action plan, based on terms of reference agreed
with the Bank, for PLN to operate according to best utility
practices (including an action plan for restructuring specific
to rural electrification); (b) discuss the said report(s) and
draft action plan with the Bank; (c) finalize the said action
plan taking into account the comments, if any, thereon by the
Bank; and (d) by June 30, 1995, take appropriate steps to
implement the said action plan taking into consideration the
comments, if any, thereon by the Bank.

      Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1995,
establish a Directorate of Regulation within DGEED with
adequate staff and funds and necessary functions and powers to
administer and oversee compliance with regulations (including
pricing and technical regulations) regarding the electricity
sector.

      Section 3.08.  (a) prepare and, by June 30, 1995, adopt a
policy regarding implementation of the power purchase tariff
and bulk supply tariff satisfactory to the Bank including
policies governing the granting of any subsidies related to
implementation of the bulk supply tariff, rules and procedures
for determining such subsidies and how such subsidies are to be
financed and directed in a transparent manner; and (b) draft
and, by December 31, 1995, promulgate rules and regulations
concerning oversight of the power purchase tariff and bulk
supply tariff implementation, in form and substance, acceptable
to the Bank.

      Section 3.09.  Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall provide financing (including local cost financing) for
Part A.6(e) of the Project from its funds.

      Section 3.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and

      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

                                ARTICLE IV



                            Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to
                  examine such records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:

      (a)  by December 31 each year commencing in 1995: (i)
review with the Bank: (1) its power sector development program,
(2) the least cost planning analysis used to formulate the said
program; (3) the roles of PLN and the private sector in the
said program; and (4) the transparency and appropriateness of
the business environment for private power participation; (ii)
review with the Bank and PLN, PLN’s development and investment



programs with respect to: (1) their consistency with the
Borrower’s power sector development program; (2) the balance
among generation, transmission and distribution investments;
and (3) the balanced development of regions;

      (b)  by January 31 every year commencing in 1995, until
completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank, for its review
and comments prior to their finalization, annual targets for
each province of the Borrower for village electrification for
the following fiscal year of the Borrower; and

      (c)  ensure that PLN has access to sufficient funds to
finance capital expenditures for its investment programs
pursuant to the said reviews.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all such actions as
shall be necessary to ensure that payments, including deferred
payments, if any, from PLN to the Overall Development Fund
(Dana Pembangunan Semesta) does not prevent PLN from
implementing its agreed investment program referred to in
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   PLN shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that PLN will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   Any of the Governing Laws shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, or repealed so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of PLN to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of PLN or for the suspension of its
operations.

      (e)   PLN shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PLN
or by others whereby any of the property of PLN shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and

      (b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement



within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and PLN.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PLN, and is legally binding upon PLN in accordance
with its terms; and

      (b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PLN and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PLN in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY                     44319 DJMLN IA
                  Jakarta                         45799 DEPKEU IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

                  Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                      248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC),
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA



                        By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
                                                Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                    East Asia and Pacific

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
          Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1) Drilling services             10,800,000       100% of foreign
    under Part A.3(b) of                           expenditures
    of the Project

(2) Goods under                    8,600,000       100% of foreign
    Part A.3(a) of                                 expenditures
    the Project

(3) Goods under Part A
    (excluding Part A.3)
    of the Project:

    (a) Equipment and            263,600,000      100% of foreign
        materials                                 expenditures,
                                                  100% of (excluding
               local expenditures
                                                  concrete power

                                                  (ex-factory) and 65%
                                                  line poles) of other
                                                  items procured
                                                  locally

    (b) Concrete power           54,100,000       80% of local
        line poles                                expenditures

(4) Consultants’
    services and
    training under

    (a) Part A of the            26,600,000       100%
        Project

    (b) Part B of the             2,200,000       100%
        Project

(5) Unallocated                  32,100,000
                                ___________

          TOTAL                 398,000,000

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:



    (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and

    (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b)
under Categories (1) and (2), unless the Bank has approved the
Subprojects under Part A.3 of the Project pursuant to paragraph
3 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statement of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods and drilling services not exceeding
$200,000 equivalent, contracts for the employment of consulting
firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, contracts for the
employment of individual consultants not exceeding $50,000
equivalent and training, under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
the implementation of its long-term power sector policy agenda
aimed, inter alia, at: (a) reducing the  unit cost burden of
rural electrification through least cost planning, lowering
equipment and construction costs, and by restructuring PLN’s
organizational structure and management processes specific to
its rural electrification mission; (b) enhancing the efficiency
of rural electrification delivery by increasing and
strengthening local participation; (c) maximizing the economic
benefits of rural electrification by promoting productive uses
of electricity in rural areas; (d) expanding the coverage and
supply of electricity to rural areas through a time slice
investment program; (e) establishing incentives for private
sector and local cooperatives to take an increasingly larger
share of rural electrification distribution and alternative
energy development within the framework of a least cost rural
electrification master plan; (f) continuing PLN’s institutional
development to undertake rural electrification planning and
implementation, especially at the regional level; and (g)
undertaking pilot distribution programs that have the potential
for further reducing the costs of rural electrification
extensification and intensification with a view to introducing
them as regular components in the government’s rural
electrification program.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

1.  Carrying out of subprojects comprising electrification of
about 7000 rural villages and about 2.1 million new consumers
in the second and third years of Repelita VI (1995/96 to
1996/97) through the construction of an estimated 28,000
kilometer-circuit (kmc) of medium-voltage (MV) lines and 35,000
kmc of low-voltage (LV) lines, 1.3 million poles and 833
megavolt-ampere (MVA) of distribution transformer capacity.

2.  Development and implementation of economic sub-transmission
schemes aimed at promoting private sector participation in
small scale generation by interconnecting captive power plants,
cogeneration plants and other small power producers willing to



sell power to a PLN regional or mini-grid serving a rural area.

3.  Carrying out of subprojects comprising: (a) the installation
of mini-hydro schemes at five sites in Sulawesi and Eastern
Indonesia ranging in size from 0.86 megawatt (MW) to 2.6 MW
with an aggregate capacity of about 7.5 MW using a run-of-river
design and requiring minimal pondage; and (b) the testing of
two mini-geothermal fields at Sembalun in Lombok and Tulehu in
Ambon through test well drilling, well monitoring and testing.

4.  Carrying out of pilot projects to test the adaptability of
low cost equipment designs, low cost network reticulation
designs, and more efficient construction management methods.

5.  Expansion of the rural small business services component
under the Rural Electrification Project (LN. 3180-IND) to
promote productive uses of electricity by businesses in rural
areas including participation by non-governmental
organizations.

6.  Provision of technical assistance for: (a) enhancing the
rural electrification planning systems capability within PLN
and transferring it to PLN regions and branches; (b)
organizational restructuring of PLN’s rural electrification
management and operational units; (c) preparation of a
renewable energy development master plan for rural
electrification in areas not likely to be covered by PLN’s
major regional grids within the next ten years; (d) capacity
building of PMU; (e) expansion of Pola schemes; and (f)
implementation of Parts A.1-A.5 of the Project.

7.  Preparation of environmental assessment and management plan,
detailed feasibility and design studies, and the work plan and
cost estimates for field development and power plant
construction for mini-geothermal fields at Sembalun in Lombok
and Tulehu in Ambon.

Part B:

1.  Provision of technical assistance for: (a) implementation
and expansion of the management services agreements and Schemes
I and II (Pola I and II) for local participation by village
level cooperatives and organizations in power distribution
related activities; and (b) development of up to two geographic
areas for possible conversion to Scheme III (Pola III).

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*

November 1, 2000                              7,645,000
May 1, 2001                                   7,920,000
November 1, 2001                              8,200,000
May 1, 2002                                   8,490,000
November 1, 2002                              8,790,000
May 1, 2003                                   9,105,000
November 1, 2003                              9,425,000
May 1, 2004                                   9,760,000
November 1, 2004                             10,110,000
May 1, 2005                                  10,465,000
November 1, 2005                             10,840,000
May 1, 2006                                  11,225,000
November 1, 2006                             11,620,000
May 1, 2007                                  12,035,000



November 1, 2007                             12,460,000
May 1, 2008                                  12,905,000
November 1, 2008                             13,360,000
May 1, 2009                                  13,835,000
November 1, 2009                             14,325,000
May 1, 2010                                  14,835,000
November 1, 2010                             15,365,000
May 1, 2011                                  15,910,000
November 1, 2011                             16,475,000
May 1, 2012                                  17,060,000
November 1, 2012                             17,665,000
May 1, 2013                                  18,290,000
November 1, 2013                             18,940,000
May 1, 2014                                  19,610,000
November 1, 2014                             20,310,000
May 1, 2015                                  21,025,000

_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:

Not more than three years                      0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                      0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                        0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                     0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not                     0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before                      1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2,
3, and 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required



for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$100,000,000.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.

          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that



all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part theright of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.