World Bank Document


                                                            CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3854-IND

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

                  (Kalimantan Urban Development Project)

                                  between

                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated April 6, 1995

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3854-IND

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 6, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan
            would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article
            III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "Affected Person" and "Affected Persons" means
indivi-dually the person and collectively the persons whose
right, title, or interest in any property is acquired or is
intended to be acquired or whose property is otherwise
possessed or intended to be possessed and who, as a result
thereof, has been or would be displaced or dispossessed from
his/their habitat or land or precluded from carrying out
his/their business, occupation or work on account of the
execution of the Project;

      (b)   "BAPPENAS" means the National Development Planning
Agency of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;

      (c)   "BAPPEDA Level I" and "BAPPEDA Level II" mean the
provincial and district level development planning agencies of
the Borrower;

      (d)   "IMG" means the Inter-departmental Management Group
established and operating within BAPPENAS for the
implementation of the Borrower’s Integrated Urban Development
Program;

      (e)   "Implementation Agencies" means any of the agencies
responsible for Project Implementation as set forth in Part B.1
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (f)   "Implementation Units" means any of the units
responsible for Project management and coordination as set
forth in Part B.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (g)   "Kampung" means a neighborhood in a Project City;

      (h)   "MPW" means the Ministry of Public Works of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto;

      (i)   "MHA" means the Ministry of Home Affairs of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto;

      (j)   "PDAM" means Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum, a local
water supply enterprise, established and operating in a Project
City pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Law No. 5 of
1962, Law No. 5 of 1974, Decree No. 26 of 1975 of MHA, and
Joint Decree of MHA No. 3 of 1984 and MPW No.26/KPTS of 1984,
as any of the same may be amended from time to time;

      (k)   "Project PDAM" means a PDAM operating in any Project
City;

      (l)   "PJM" means the five-year expenditure program
approved by the Borrower for each Project City and Project
PDAM;

      (m)   "Project City" means  any of the Borrower’s
municipalities of Banjarmasin, Balikpapan, Palangkaraya,
Pontianak and Samarinda located in the region of Kalimantan;

      (n)   "PIA" means Kesepakatan Pelaksanaan Program, the
implementation agreement entered into between the Borrower and
each Project City and the respective Project PDAM pursuant to



Section 3.02 and Part A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (o)   "PIAs" means collectively all implementation
agreements entered into between the Borrower and all Project
Cities and all Project PDAMs;

      (p)   "Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plans" means
the  Samarinda Plan, dated October 22, 1994 and the Banjarmasin
Plan, dated September 16, 1994, for carrying out the
resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons, as such
plans may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank, pursuant to the terms and conditions
described in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

      (q)   "Rp" means Indonesian Rupiah, the currency of the
Borrower;

      (r)   "SLA" means any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to
be entered into between:

            (i)   the Borrower and each Project City; or

            (ii)  the Borrower and each Project PDAM and the
                  respective Project City, pursuant to Section
                  3.03 (b) of this Agreement;

      (s)   "SLAs" means collectively all Subsidiary Loan
Agreements entered into between the Borrower and all Project
Cities and Project PDAMs, with the exception of PDAM
Banjarmasin;

      (t)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (u)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to
exchanges of letters dated December 20, 1990, May 10, 1991 and
February 24, 1993, between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (v)   "Fiscal year" or "FY" means the Borrower’s fiscal
year commencing April 1 and ending March 31; and

      (w)   "PDAM FY" means any of the Project PDAMs’ fiscal year
commencing January 1 and ending December 31.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred thirty-six
million dollars ($136,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the  proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit
account in Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of



Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund:

                  (A)   the Bank’s investments; and

                  (B)   loans which may be made by the Bank after
                        July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
                        determined otherwise than as provided in
                        paragraph (a) of this Section.

           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
      preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
      1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of



      this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
      the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
      Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
      such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
      Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
      a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
environmental, social and resettlement practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall enter into an
implementation agreement with each Project City and its
respective Project PDAM, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including those set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall on-lend out of the
proceeds of the Loan:

            (i)  (A)    one million nine hundred fifty thousand
                        dollars ($1,950,000) equivalent to the
                        Project City of Banjarmasin;

                  (B)   four million two hundred ninety thousand
                        dollars ($4,290,000) equivalent to the
                        Project City of Balikpapan;

                  (C)   three million eight hundred seventy
                        thousand dollars ($3,870,000) equivalent
                        to the Project PDAM of Balikpapan;

                  (D)   one million five hundred sixty thousand
                        dollars ($1,560,000) equivalent to the
                        Project City of Palangkaraya;

                  (E)   two million eight hundred thirty thousand
                        dollars ($2,830,000) equivalent to the
                        Project PDAM of Palangkaraya;



                  (F)   three million and eighty thousand dollars
                        ($3,080,000) equivalent to the Project
                        City of Pontianak;

                  (G)   nine million seventy thousand dollars
                        ($9,070,000) equivalent to the Project
                        PDAM of Pontianak;

                  (H)   two million one hundred and sixty thousand
                        dollars ($2,160,000) equivalent to the
                        Project City of Samarinda; and

                  (I)   four million six hundred and ninety
                        thousand dollars ($4,690,000) equivalent
                        to the Project PDAM of Samarinda under
                        subsidiary loan agreements whose terms and
                        conditions are satisfactory to the Bank,
                        including the following:

            (ii)  (A)   the interest payable on the principal
                        amount of the subsidiary loan withdrawn
                        from time to time shall be fixed at an
                        annual rate of 11.5%;

                  (B)   the commitment charge payable on the
                        principal amount of the subsidiary loan
                        not withdrawn from time to time shall be
                        equivalent to the rate determined under
                        Section 2.04 of this Agreement;

                  (C)   the terms of each subsidiary loan shall be
                        twenty (20) years, including a grace
                        period of five (5) years;

                  (D)   the Borrower shall bear the foreign
                        exchange risk and interest rate variation
                        risk; and

                  (E)   financial and other covenants pursuant to
                        the provisions of Parts A.2 and A.3 of
                        Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

           (iii)  the Borrower shall exercise its rights
                  under the PIAs and SLAs in such manner as
                  to:

                  (A)   protect the interests of the Bank and the
                        Borrower;

                  (B)   comply with its obligations under this
                        Agreement; and

                  (C)   achieve the objectives of the Project; and

            (iv)  except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
                  Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
                  waive the PIAs or SLAs or any provisions
                  thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall make available to the Project
Cities and Project PDAMs, on a grant basis, the balance of the
remainder of the Loan, in accordance with the amounts allocated
to each Project City and Project PDAM under Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, with the exception of Categories (1) (e), (2) (e),
(3) (e), (4) (e), (5) (e), (6) and (7).
      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of



Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and

      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such

                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are



                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any Project City or any Project PDAM shall have
failed to perform any of its respective obligations under the
PIA or the SLA, as the case may be, to which it is a party;

      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that any Project City or
Project PDAM will be able to perform any of their respective
obligations under the PIAs and the SLAs;

      (c)   the laws and regulations establishing the Project
PDAMs shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, or
repealed so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project PDAMs to perform any of their respective
obligations under the PIAs; and

      (d)   the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the Project PDAMs or for the suspension of
their respective operations.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of ninety (90) days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely that the PIAs and the SLAs have been duly
approved by all relevant authorities and executed by the
Borrower and Project Cities and Project PDAMs.

      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the PIAs and the SLAs have
been duly authorized or ratified by their respective parties
thereto and are legally binding upon said parties in accordance
with their respective terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.



                                ARTICLE VII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O.Box 139
            Jakarta 10710
            Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY                   45799 DJMLN-IA,
                  Jakarta                       44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                      By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
                                                  Authorized Representative

                      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                      By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                                       East Asia and Pacific

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed

(1) Part A of the Project
    (Balikpapan)

    a) Civil works           11,640,000           60%

    b) Equipment and            220,000           100% of foreign
       supplies                                   expenditures,
        (excluding vehicles)                      100% of local
                                                  expenditures ex-
                                                  factory cost) and
                                                  65% of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally

    c) Consultants’ services  2,060,000           91%

    d) Training                 160,000           91%

    e) Goods and works                            91%
        financed under SLAs:

        i)      Project City  4,290,000

        ii)     Project PDAM  3,870,000

(2) Part B of the Project
    (Pontianak)

    a)  Civil works          15,250,000           60%

    b)  Equipment and         1,020,000           100% of foreign
        supplies                                  expenditures,
        (excluding vehicles)                      100% of local ex-
                                                  penditures (ex-
                                                  factory cost) and
                                                  65% of local ex-
                                                  penditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally

    c)  Consultants’ services  2,020,000          91%

    d)  Training                 160,000          91%

    e)  Goods and works                           91%
        financed under SLAs:

          i)    Project City   3,080,000

          ii)   Project PDAM   9,070,000

(3) Part C of the Project:
    (Palangkaraya)



    a)  Civil works            6,830,000          60%

    b)  Equipment and            690,000          100% of foreign
        supplies                                  expenditures,
        (excluding vehicles)                      100% of local
                                                  expenditures (ex-
                                                  factory cost) and
                                                  65% of local ex-
                                                  penditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally

    c)  Consultants’           1,310,000          91%
        services

    d)  Training                160,000           91%

    e)  Goods and works                           91%
          financed under SLAs:

          i)    Project City  1,560,000

          ii)   Project PDAM  2,830,000

(4) Part D of the Project
    (Samarinda)

    a)  Civil works           9,990,000          60%

    b)  Equipment and           100,000          100% of foreign
        supplies                                 expenditures,
        (excluding vehicles)                     100% of local
                                                 expenditures (ex-
                                                 factory cost) and
                                                 65% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items
                                                 procured locally

    c)  Consultants’          1,750,000          91%
        services

    d)  Training                160,000          91%

    e)  Goods and works                          91%
        financed under SLAs:

          i) Project City     2,160,000

         ii) Project PDAM     4,690,000

(5) Part E of the Project
    (Banjarmasin)

    a)  Civil works          25,550,000          60%

    b)  Equipment and         3,380,000          100% of foreign
        supplies (ex-                            expenditures,
        cluding vehicles)                        100% of local ex-
        vehicles)                                penditures (ex-
                                                 factory cost) and
                                                 65% of local ex-
                                                 penditures for
                                                 other items
                                                 procured locally

    c)  Consultants’          1,400,000          91%
        services

    d)  Training                160,000          91%



    e)  Goods and works       1,950,000          91%
        financed under SLAs
        for the Project City

(6) Part F of the Project:

    a)  Consultants’           2,000,000         91% under contracts
        services                                 signed before June 1, 1995

    b)  Consultants’           8,300,000         80% under contracts signed
        services                                 after June 1, 1995

(7) Refunding of Project       1,700,000         Amount due pur-
    Preparation Advance                          suant to Section
                                                 2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement

(8) Unallocated                6,490,000

        TOTAL               $136,000,000

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and

    (c)   the term "goods and works financed under SLAs" means
the expenditures incurred by the Project Cities and Project
PDAMs under the respective SLAs.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $5,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories
(1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after May 30, 1994.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for:

    (a)   goods not exceeding two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000);

    (b)   works not exceeding one million dollars ($1,000,000)
equivalent;

    (c)   the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000;

    (d)   the employment of individuals, estimated to cost less
than $50,000, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower; and

    (e)   training.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the:



    (a)   improvement of the provision of urban infrastructure
services and the efficiency of urban investments;

    (b)   development and strengthening of the institutional
capabilities of the Project Cities and Project PDAMs;

    (c)    alleviation of poverty through the provision of
essential services to the urban poor; and

    (d)   improvement of the quality of the urban environment.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Balikpapan

1.  Increasing the capacity of the municipal water supply system
through:

    (a)   the upgrading of existing water intakes at Gunung Sari
and Kampung Damai, construction of reservoirs, installation of
distribution, secondary and tertiary pipeworks, house
connections and public hydrants; and

    (b)   the provision of training for PDAM staff and the
carrying out of a public education program.

2.  Improving sanitation and human waste disposal facilities
through:

    (a)   the construction of communal lavatory facilities and
toilets, grey water leaching pits, pilot wastewater and
sanitation programs and the provision of sludge collection
vehicles;

    (b)   the carrying out of an operation and maintenance
program and a public information campaign to disseminate
information on the pilot systems; and

    (c)   the provision of training for Project City staff.

3.  Improving solid waste management systems through:

    (a)   the construction of  disposal sites and a transfer
depot; and

    (b)   the provision of waste containers, hand carts,
vehicles, office and workshop equipment.

4.  Upgrading of the drainage systems through:

    (a)   the rehabilitation, improvement and operation and
maintenance of existing primary, secondary and tertiary drains,
construction of new primary drains and provision of dump
trucks; and

    (b)   the construction of channel normalization and
improvement works.

5.  Improving the urban road network through:

    (a)   the construction, improvement and routine maintenance
of priority primary and secondary urban roads; and

    (b)   the carrying out of a traffic management study.

6.  Improving urban infrastructure through:

    (a)   the upgrading of selected kampungs and markets; and



    (b)   the carrying out of renewal works at Gunung Sari Ilir.

7.  Development of an action program to strengthen municipal
institutions through:

    (a)   provision of advisory services and training to
strengthen program management and monitoring, municipal
management, revenue collection, environmental and resettlement
capabilities of Project City and Project PDAM staff and
engineering design, procurement, supervision of works’
services; and

    (b)   the preparation of an urban development strategy and
a PJM.

Part B:   Pontianak

1.  Increasing the capacity of the municipal water supply system
through:

    (a)   the replacement of defective, and construction of new
secondary and tertiary pipelines, water consumer meters and
connec-tions, pump stations and public hydrants;

    (b)   the construction of a water treatment plant at Imam
Bojol;

    (c)   the carrying out of a water loss reduction program;

    (d)   the construction of a workshop, main office and a
laboratory for the PDAM; and

    (e)   the provision of training for PDAM staff and the
carrying out a public education program.

2.  Improving sanitation and human waste disposal facilities
through:

    (a)   the rehabilitation of communal lavatory and toilet
facilities, wastewater drains, construction of a sludge
disposal site and provision of sludge collection vehicles; and

    (b)   the carrying out of a sanitation program.

3.  Improving solid waste management systems through the
construction of waste transfer stations, a final waste disposal
site, interim waste disposal sites, closure of the existing
landfill and provision of vehicles and containers.

4.  Upgrading of the drainage and flood control systems through:

    (a)   the widening of main drainage channels, rehabilitation
and operation and maintenance of primary, secondary and
tertiary drains, construction of four hydraulic gates and
provision of vehicles and equipment; and

    (b)   the carrying out of channel improvement, lining and
dredging works on the Raya, Jawi and Tokaya rivers.

5.  Improving the urban road network through:

    (a)   the construction, rehabilitation, improvement and
routine maintenance of primary, secondary and tertiary roads;
and

    (b)   the carrying out of a traffic management study.

6.  Improving urban infrastructure through:

    (a)   the upgrading of selected kampungs and markets; and



    (b)   the provision of support to the low-cost housing
project at Siantar Hulu.

7.  Implementation of an action program to strengthen municipal
institutions through:

    (a)   the provision of advisory services and training to
strengthen the program management and monitoring, municipal
management, revenue collection, environmental and resettlement
capabilities of Project City and Project PDAM staff and
engineering design, procurement, supervision of works’
services; and

    (b)   the preparation of an urban development strategy and
a PJM.

Part C:   Palangkaraya

1.  Increasing the capacity of the municipal water supply system
through:

    (a)   the construction of a new water treatment plant, new
pipelines, rehabilitation of water treatment plant filters,
replacement and expansion of intake pumps, installation of a
new bulk water meter, service connections and public hydrants;

    (b)   the construction of an office and a workshop for the
Project PDAM; and

    (c)   the provision of training for PDAM staff and the
carrying out of a public awareness campaign.

2.  Improving sanitation and human waste disposal facilities
through:

    (a)   the construction of communal lavatory and toilet
facilities, a sludge disposal site and provision of sludge
collection vehicles; and

    (b)   the carrying out of a sanitation program and a public
information campaign to improve sanitation practices.

3.  Improving solid waste management systems through:

    (a)   the construction of a final disposal site and an
access road; interim disposal sites, transfer stations; and

    (b)   the provision of equipment, vehicles and office
equipment.

4.  Upgrading of the drainage system through the improvement,
rehabilitation and maintenance of primary, secondary and
tertiary drains and culverts.

5.  Improving the road network through the improvement,
rehabilitation and maintenance of primary and secondary roads.

6.  Improving urban infrastructure through:

    (a)   the upgrading of selected kampungs and markets; and

    (b)   the provision of support to a low-cost housing project
north of the City.

7.  Implementation of an action program to strengthen municipal
institutions through:

    (a)   the provision of advisory services and training to
strengthen the program management and monitoring, municipal
management, revenue collection, environmental and resettlement



capabilities of Project City and Project PDAM staff and
engineering design, procurement, supervision of works’
services; and

    (b)   the preparation of an urban development strategy and
a PJM.

Part D:   Samarinda

1.  Increasing the capacity of the municipal water supply system
through:

    (a)   the rehabilitation, replacement and construction of
service and transmission pipelines, service reservoirs, a water
treatment plant, consumer meters, water service connections and
public hydrants;

    (b)   the carrying out of a water loss reduction program and
public awareness campaigns;

    (c)   provision of training for PDAM staff; and

    (d)   the carrying out of a study to identify new water
sources.

2.  Improving sanitation and human waste disposal facilities
through:

    (a)   the construction of a wastewater interceptor aeration
pond, including the resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected
Persons displaced by the construction of said pond;

    (b)   the construction of public toilet facilities, a septic
sludge disposal site and provision of sludge collection
vehicles; and

    (c)   the carrying out of a sanitation program and a public
awareness campaign on sanitation.

3.  Improving solid waste management systems through:

    (a)   the construction of a final waste disposal site and an
access road, interim disposal sites, transfer stations,
collection facilities, container bases; and

    (b)   the provision of equipment and waste collection
vehicles.

4.  Upgrading of the drainage systems through the rehabilitation
and maintenance of primary, secondary and tertiary drains,
culverts and drainage channels.

5.  Improving the urban road network through the improvement and
maintenance of primary, secondary and tertiary roads.

6.  Improving urban infrastructure through:

    (a)   the upgrading of selected kampungs and markets;

    (b)   the construction of roads for the low-cost housing
projects at Sambutan and Bengkuring; and

    (c)   the provision of community infrastructure for the
renewal project along the Karang Mumus river.

7.  Implementation of an action program to strengthen municipal
institutions through:

    (a)   the provision of advisory services and training to
strengthen the program management and monitoring, municipal
management, revenue collection, environmental and resettlement
capabilities of Project City and Project PDAM staff and



engineering design, procurement, supervision of works’
services; and

    (b)   the preparation of an urban development strategy and
a PJM.

Part E:   Banjarmasin

1.  Improving the capacity of the municipal water supply system
through:

    (a)   the installation of pipelines, pumps, house
connections and public hydrants; and

    (b)   the extension of the water distribution network.

2.  Improving sanitation and human waste disposal facilities
through:

    (a)   the implementation of pilot sanitation systems and a
sanitation program and the provision of sludge collection
vehicles;

    (b)   the improvement of sanitation wastewater facilities;

    (c)   strengthening of the municipal capabilities to monitor
and evaluate the implementation of said pilot systems; and

    (d)   the carrying out of a public awareness campaign on
sanitation.

3.  Improving solid waste management systems through:

    (a)   the construction and improvement of waste disposal
sites, transfer stations and container bases; and

    (b)   the provision of vehicles.

4.  Upgrading of the drainage and flood control systems through:

    (a)   the improvement and maintenance of primary, secondary
and tertiary drains, construction of hydraulic gates;

    (b)   the provision of equipment and vehicles;

    (c)   the carrying out of a public awareness campaign
against illegal dumping into drains; and

    (d)   the construction of steel piling to protect a section
of the river bank at Martapura.

5.  Improving the urban road network through:

    (a)   the rehabilitation, improvement and routine
maintenance of primary and secondary urban roads; and

    (b)   the construction of a section of the southern ring
road and bridge at the Martapura river, including the
resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons displaced
by carrying out said construction works.

6.  Improving urban infrastructure through:

    (a)   the upgrading of selected kampungs and markets; and

    (b)   the construction of roads for selected low-cost
housing projects.

7.  Implementation of an action program to strengthen municipal
institutions through:



    (a)   the provision of advisory services and training to
strengthen the program management and monitoring, municipal
management, revenue collection, environmental and resettlement
capabilities of Project City and Project PDAM staff, and
engineering design, procurement and supervision of works’
services; and

    (b)   the preparation of an urban development strategy and
a PJM.

Part F:   Project Implementation Support, Institutional Development
          and Training

1.  Strengthening of the Borrower’s Project implementation
capabilities, including the provision of training on project
management techniques for staff of the Implementing Agencies.
2.  Provision of advisory services in the following areas:

    (a)   water system development;

    (b)   infrastructure maintenance;’

    (c)   sanitation and wastewater systems;

    (d)   urban management support; and

    (e)   preparation of future /urban projects for Kalimantan
cities to be selected by the Borrower.

                *             *             *             *

    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
2000.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                               Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*

December 15, 2000                                    2,615,000
June 15, 2001                                        2,710,000
December 15, 2001                                    2,805,000
June 15, 2002                                        2,905,000
December 15, 2002                                    3,005,000
June 15, 2003                                        3,115,000
December 15, 2003                                    3,225,000
June 15, 2004                                        3,335,000
December 15, 2004                                    3,455,000
June 15, 2005                                        3,580,000
December 15, 2005                                    3,705,000
June 15, 2006                                        3,835,000
December 15, 2006                                    3,970,000
June 15, 2007                                        4,115,000
December 15, 2007                                    4,260,000
June 15, 2008                                        4,410,000
December 15, 2008                                    4,565,000
June 15, 2009                                        4,730,000
December 15, 2009                                    4,895,000
June 15, 2010                                        5,070,000
December 15, 2010                                    5,250,000
June 15, 2011                                        5,435,000
December 15, 2011                                    5,630,000
June 15, 2012                                        5,825,000
December 15, 2012                                    6,035,000
June 15, 2013                                        6,250,000
December 15, 2013                                    6,470,000



June 15, 2014                                        6,700,000
December 15, 2014                                    6,935,000
June 15, 2015                                        7,165,000

_______________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                              Premium

                                        The interest rate (expressed
                                        as a percentage per annum)
                                        applicable to the Loan on the
                                        day of prepayment multiplied
                                        by:

Not more than three years                           0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                           0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                             0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not                      0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity

More than sixteen years but not                     0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity

More than eighteen years before                     1.00
     maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

     (a)  When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract.  The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of bid price
to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over
the period of extension.  Such an increase in the bid price



shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.  With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank’s prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 of this
Section, the Bank’s prior approval will be required for:

          (i)   a first extension of the bid validity period, if
                the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days;
                and

          (ii)  any subsequent extension of the bid validity
                period.

     (b)    In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.   Bidders for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $1,000,000 or more per contract shall be pre-qualified as
provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Local Competitive Bidding

     (a)  Civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
$113,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

     (b)  Goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $6,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.   Shopping

     Goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of pre-qualification:

     With respect to the pre-qualification of bidders as
provided in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:



     (a)  With respect to each contract for: (i) civil works,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more; and
(ii) goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect to such contract.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.

     (c)  The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II      Employment of Consultants

1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause the relevant
Implementing Agencies to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, shortlists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation
reports and contracts shall not apply to:

     (a)  contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or

     (b)  contracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, said
exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:

          (i)   the terms of reference for such contracts;

          (ii)  single-source selection of consulting firms;

         (iii)  assignments of a critical nature, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank;

          (iv)  amendments to contracts for the employment of
                consulting firms raising the contract value to
                $100,000 equivalent or above; or



          (v)   amendments to contracts for the employment of
                individual consultants raising the contract value
                to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                              SCHEDULE 5

                        Implementation Program

Part A:     Subsidiary Agreements

1.   Project Implementation Agreements (PIAS)

     (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that PIAs shall include, inter alia, provisions
whereby:

          (i)   The Project Cities and the Project PDAMs shall
                declare their commitment to the objectives of the
                Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
                Agreement, and to that end, they shall agree to
                carry out their respective Parts of the Project,
                with due diligence and efficiency and in
                conformity with appropriate administrative,
                financial, engineering, environmental and
                resettlement practices and criteria, and to
                provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                facilities, services and other resources required
                therefor.

          (ii)  The Project Cities and the Project PDAMs agree
                that procurement of the goods, works and
                consultants’ services required for the Project
                and to be
                financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under
                this Agreement shall be governed by the
                provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

         (iii)  The Project PDAM in Banjarmasin shall agree
                to perform the obligations described under
                Part A.3 of this Schedule.

     (b)  The Project Cities and the Project PDAMs shall agree
to use the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan exclusively for the purposes of the Project.

     (c)  The Project Cities and the Project PDAMs shall agree
that the Borrower or the Bank may from time to time inspect the
goods, works and services under the Project including all
records and documents relating thereto.

     (d)  The Borrower may suspend or terminate the right of the
Project Cities and the Project PDAMs to use the proceeds of the
Loan made available under the SLAs upon their failure to
perform any of their respective obligations under the PIAs or
upon notice by the Bank to the Borrower that it intends to
exercise its remedies under Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions.

     (e)    The Project Cities and the Project PDAMs, shall agree
to promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
their respective Parts of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan under this Agreement, or the
performance of their respective obligations under the PIAs.

     (f)    The Project Cities and the Project PDAMs shall agree
to cooperate fully with the Borrower and the Bank to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end
the Project Cities and the Project PDAMs shall agree to:



          (i)   from time to time, at the request of either the
                Borrower or the Bank, exchange views with the
                Borrower and/or the Bank regarding the progress
                in carrying out their respective Parts of the
                Project or the performance of their respective
                obligations under the PIAS, and other matters
                relating to the purposes of the Loan; and

          (ii)  furnish all such information and documents
                related thereto as may reasonably be requested.
                The Project Cities and the Project PDAMs shall
                further agree to provide such information and
                documents as may be required by the Borrower to
                fulfill its supervision, monitoring, recording
                and reporting obligations to the Bank.

     (g)  The Project Cities and the Project PDAMs shall agree
to comply and assist the Borrower in complying with the audit
and accounting covenants in respect of their respective Parts
of the Project.

          (h)   The Project Cities shall promptly after the
Effective Date and thereafter, until the completion of the
Project, provide sufficient counterpart funds to fully finance
the costs of operation and maintenance of urban roads and
drainage referred to under their respective Parts of the
Project.
2.   Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and the
Project     Cities

     Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, and for the
purposes of the provisions of Section 3.03 (a) of this
Agreement, the SLAs shall, inter alia, include the following
covenants:

     (a)    the Project Cities shall take all necessary measures
during Project implementation to implement their respective
local institutional development action programs (LIDAPs),
revenue improvement action plans (RIAPs) and PJMs.

     (b)  the Project Cities shall periodically review and adjust
their charges for solid waste disposal, with a view to
obtaining and thereafter maintaining throughout Project
implementation, full recovery of the costs of operation and
maintenance of their respective solid waste and sanitation
programs.

3.   Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and the
Project     PDAMs

     (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the SLAs
shall,
inter alia, include the following financial covenants:

          (i)   the Project PDAMs shall produce, for each of
                their fiscal years after their fiscal year ending
                on December 31, 1994, annual gross revenues from
                all sources to fully cover their operating
                expenses; and promptly thereafter, take the
                necessary measures to fully cover their operating
                expenses and depreciation by their fiscal year
                ending on December 31, 1999;

          (ii)  before September 30 in each of their fiscal
                years, the Project PDAMs shall, on the basis of
                forecasts prepared by said PDAMs and satisfactory
                to the Borrower and the Bank, review whether they
                would meet the requirements set forth in
                paragraph (i) in
                respect of such year and the next fiscal year and
                shall furnish to the Borrower and the Bank a copy
                of such review upon its completion;



         (iii)  the Project PDAMs shall not undertake any
                proposed investment additional to their
                respective PJM and estimated to cost Rp
                2,000,000,000 (two billion Rupiah)
                equivalent or more, unless the PDAM has
                submitted the proposed investment to the
                Borrower and the Bank for their review and
                comments;

          (iv)  the Project PDAMs shall not make any distribution
                with respect to their net income, unless, after
                such distribution has been made, funds from
                internal sources are equivalent to not less than
                20% of the annual average of capital expenditures
                incurred for that year and the previous year and
                expected to be incurred the next following fiscal
                year; and

          (v)   the Project PDAMs shall periodically review
                and adjust their tariffs on the basis of
                realistic forecasts of revenues and
                expenditures, by not later than January 1,
                1996, January 1, 1998 and January 1, 2000
                with a view to meeting the financial targets
                set forth under this Schedule.

     (b)  For the purposes of this Schedule, the following terms
          have the following meanings:

          (i)   "Gross revenues from all sources" means the sum
                of revenues from all sources related to water
                operation, house connections, and cash consumer
                contributions in aid of construction, but
                excluding non-operating income and any other cash
                inflows;

          (ii)  "Operating expenses" means the sum of all
                expenses related to water operation, including
                maintenance and administration and interest on
                loans, but excluding depreciation.

         (iii)  "Depreciation" means the annual provision
                charged against revenues to depreciate, on
                a basis acceptable to the Bank, the current
                value of the fixed assets in operation as
                valued from time to time in accordance with
                methods of valuation satisfactory to the
                Bank.

          (iv)  "Debt" means any indebtedness of the Project
                PDAMs maturing by its terms more than one year
                after the date on which it is originally
                incurred. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

                (A)   under a loan contract or agreement or other
                      instrument providing for such debt or for
                      the modification of its terms of payment on
                      the date of such contract, agreement or
                      instrument; and

                (B)   under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
                      agreement providing for such guarantee has
                      been entered into.

            (v)       "Net non-operating income" means the
                      difference between:

                (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                      related to operations; and

                (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in



                      lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
                      revenues in (A) above.

          (vi)  "Debt service requirement" means the aggregate
                amount of repayments (including sinking fund
                payments, if any), and interest and other charges
                on, debt.

         (vii)  "Reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                prepared by the Project PDAMs not earlier
                than twelve months prior to the incurrence
                of the debt in question, which both the Bank
                and the respective Project PDAMs accept as
                reasonable and as to which the Bank has
                notified the respective Project PDAMs
                accept-ability, provided that no event has
                occurred since such notification which has,
                or may reasonably be expected in the future
                to have, a material adverse effect on the
                financial condition or future operat-ing
                results of the respective PDAM.

         (viii) "Current assets excluding cash" means all
                assets, other than cash which could in the
                ordinary course of business be converted
                into cash within twelve months, including
                accounts receivable, marketable securities,
                inventories and pro-paid expenses properly
                chargeable to operating expenses within the
                next fiscal year.

          (ix)  "Current liabilities" means all liabilities which
                will become due and payable or could under
                circumstances then existing be called for payment
                within twelve months, including accounts payable,
                customer advances, debt service requirements,
                taxes and dividends.

            (x) "Capital expenditures" means all
                expenditures on account of fixed assets,
                including interest charged to construction,
                related to operations.

Part B:    Implementation Agencies and Units

1.   The Borrower shall maintain throughout Project
implementation, the following agencies including, inter alia,
Municipal Public Agency (Dinas PU), Municipal Cleansing Agency
(Dinas Kebersihan), Municipal Housing Agency (Dinas Perumahan)
or other agency designated by the Borrower, Market Agency
(Dinas Pengelola Pasar), and BAPPEDA Levels I and II.

2.   Each Project City shall establish and thereafter maintain
throughout Project implementation units responsible for Project
management and coordination staffed with technical and adminis-
trative personnel in sufficient numbers and with qualification
and experience satisfactory to the Bank including, inter alia,
Local Project Monitoring Office (PMO), Project Management Unit
(PMU), Project Finance Office (PFO), including a Project
Manager (PIMPRO).

3.   The Directorate General for Human Settlements under MPW
shall be responsible for overall technical supervision and
management of Project implementation.

Part C:   Implementation Actions

1.   The Borrower shall cause the IMG to review, by not later
than November 30, of each year the following:

     (a)  jointly with the Bank, the expenditures incurred during
the previous fiscal year, and the allocations proposed for the



upcoming fiscal year, to finance the costs of operation and
maintenance for the infrastructure sector; and

     (b)  all budget requests submitted for its approval by the
Implementation Agencies.

2.   The Borrower shall, throughout Project implementation:

     (a)  issue the respective budget approvals, by not later
than January 15 of each year, for the Project PDAMs and by not
later than May 1 of each year, for the Project Cities; and

     (b)  ensure that all Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action
Plans are carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

3.   The Borrower shall:

     (a)  carry out every year during the implementation of the
Project, commencing not later one year after the Effective
Date, annual technical audits, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank, for Project quality assurance, including, inter alia,
performance of civil works; and consultants’ contracts,
provision of compensation under the Resettlement and
Rehabilitation Plans, procurement of goods and implementation
of training programs financed under Project; and

     (b)  promptly after completing said audits, furnish to the
Bank, the recommendations submitted as part of said audits.

4.   The Borrower shall:

     (a)  not later than April 30, 1998, furnish to the Bank, a
report in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request,
including an evaluation of progress achieved by the Borrower in
Project implementation; and

     (b)  not later than June 30, 1998, and on the basis of the
above report, carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term
Project implementation review to, inter alia:

          (i)   evaluate progress achieved by the Borrower, in
                general, and by the Implementing Agencies, in
                particular, in carrying out the Project,
                including the carrying out of the Resettlement
                and Rehabi-litation Plans;

          (ii)  update the PJMs, PIAs and SLAs, if necessary;

         (iii)  discuss and exchange views on all other
                related activities financed by other donor
                agencies; and

          (iv)  exchange information among Implementing Agencies
                and Units and propose solutions to any current
                implementation issues; and

     (c)  promptly after completing the mid-term review, carry
out those recommendations arising out of said review, as agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank.

5.   The Borrower shall, throughout Project Implementation:

     (a)  furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments all
proposed new Project activities to be financed under the Loan;

     (b)  promptly after exchanging views with the Bank, submit
to the Bank a final proposal covering the technical, financial,
economic, institutional and environmental aspects for the
proposed activities. Such proposals shall be prepared by the
respective Project City in accordance with criteria and
procedures agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and as set



forth in the respective PIA, including an environmental
assessment and a management and monitoring plan if necessary;
and

     (c)  take all necessary measures to avoid or minimize
involuntary resettlement of Affected Persons and where
resettlement is unavoidable, the Borrower shall, before
carrying out the works which would result in such resettlement:

          (i)   prepare a resettlement and rehabilitation action
                plan in accordance with policies, planning
                principles, institutional arrangements and design
                criteria agreed with the Bank and the provisions
                set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

          (ii)  furnish the resettlement and rehabilitation plan
                referred to in sub-paragraph (i) hereof to the
                Bank for approval; and

         (iii)  ensure that said Affected Persons shall be
                resettled in accordance with the
                resettlement and rehabilitation plan
                approved by the Bank.

6.   The Borrower shall, throughout Project implementation,
ensure that the State Treasury office in the respective Project
City (KPKN), except for the Project City of Balikpapan, takes
all necessary measures to timely issue payment orders required
under contracts for goods, works and consultants’ services
locally procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.

7.   The Borrower shall:

     (a)  not later than six months after the Effective Date,
prepare in accordance with technical and academic requirements
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank for its approval, a training program designed to
strengthen the contract management and procurement capabilities
of staff of the PIUs; and

     (b)  promptly after receiving the Bank’s approval, implement
said training program in accordance with terms of reference and
an implementation timetable agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank.

                                SCHEDULE 6

           Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plans (RRAPs)

Part A:   Institutional Responsibilities

1.   For the purposes of Parts D.2 (a) and E.5 (b) of the
Project, the Borrower shall:

     (a)   take all necessary measures to cause the Project
Cities to carry out their respective RRAP, with due diligence
and efficiency and in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank;

     (b)   cause the Project Cities to monitor and evaluate the
implementation of the RRAPs and ensure that consultations with
Affected Persons are carried out in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank; and

     (c)  the Borrower shall cause the National Land Agency
(BPN), MPW and other relevant agencies and Departments of the
Borrower to assist the Project Cities in the carrying out of
the RRAPs.

Part B:    Main Features of the RRAPs



1.   The Borrower shall cause the Project Cities to carry out
their respective RRAP in accordance with terms agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank.

2.   The Borrower shall cause the Project Cities to make
available to Affected Persons either cash compensation,
serviced plots, or serviced plots with core houses in adequate
numbers and in accordance with the provisions of the respective
RRAP, the informed preference of the Affected Persons, and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including,
without limitation, the following:

     (a)  cash compensation to Affected Persons for the land and
the residential or non-residential structures acquired or
possessed therefrom, calculated at replacement value in
accordance with the provisions of the respective RRAP; or

     (b)  a new serviced plot:

          (i)   the total area of the plot shall be at least that
                of the plot acquired, but not less than sixty
                square meters;

          (ii)  the plot shall be made available to the Affected
                Persons, at least thirty (30) days prior to their
                displacement from their original plot;

         (iii)  each plot shall be made available to the
                Affected Persons under the right to use (hak
                guna bangunan). For this purpose, the
                Borrower undertakes to issue, through its
                BPN, registered certificates of the
                aforesaid legal rights to Affected Persons,
                not later than one year after the completion
                of the relocation of said Persons;

          (iv)  all plots shall have access to community
                facilities and services, road access, and
                transportation services, as necessary; and

          (v)   Affected Persons selecting a new plot shall
                receive  an amount equivalent to the difference
                between the cash compensation stipulated for the
                Affected Person and the cost of the new serviced
                plot and core house, if any.

                                SCHEDULE 7

                              Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $3,500,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered



into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$6,000,000.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such
               intervals as the Bank shall specify.

          (ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                   each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.  All such deposits shall be
                   withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
                   under the respective eligible Categories, and
                   in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
                   have been justified by said documents and
                   other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the



right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:

          (i)  was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
               or

         (ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished to
               the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
               notice from the Bank:

               (A)   provide such additional evidence as the Bank
                     may request; or

                (B)  deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
                     Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
                     amount equal to the amount of such payment or
                     the portion thereof not so eligible or
                     justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise
                     agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
                     the Special Account shall be made until the
                     Borrower has provided such evidence or made
                     such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.