World Bank Document


                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3893 TU

                              Loan Agreement

               (Antalya Water Supply and Sanitation Project)

                                  between

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                                    and

                ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY

                            Dated July 5, 1995

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3893 TU
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ANTALYA WATER
SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) Republic of Turkey (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Investment Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in the amount of
ECU thirty-five million (ECU 35,000,000) to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and EIB;

      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even
date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of the Loan; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "Sirket" means the enterprise to be established under
Law No. 6762, dated June 29, 1956, of the Guarantor for the
purpose of consolidating the administrative and financial
management of water supply, sewerage, stormwater and solid
waste services in the Antalya Metropolitan Municipality;

      (b)   "PMU" means the project management unit established
within the Antalya Metropolitan Municipality for the purpose of
initiating the preparation and implementation of the Project;

      (c)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into by the Borrower and the Sirket pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement;

      (d)   "Guarantor’s Laws" means Law No. 3030, Law No. 2560
and Law No. 3914 of the Guarantor;

      (e)   "Borrower’s Statutes" means Decree No. 94/6516 dated
February 18, 1995 of the Guarantor providing for the
establishment of the Borrower;

      (f)   "Private Operator" means any enterprise with which
the Borrower shall enter into lease and/or management contracts
to operate the Borrower’s water supply, sewerage and stormwater
drainage services; and

      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described



in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in a freely convertible currency acceptable
to the Bank a special deposit account in the Central Bank of
the Guarantor on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the



            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and
            the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and public utility
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project through the PMU and the Sirket in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement and, for this purpose, shall, not later than November
30, 1995, enter into a subsidiary agreement with the Sirket on
the basis of terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including, inter alia, the requirements specified in paragraph
1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall enter into lease and/or management
contracts with Private Operators on the basis of terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the
requirement that said Private Operators periodically adjust the
charges for water supply and sewerage services in accordance
with changes in the Consumer Price Index of the Guarantor or
other indicator acceptable to the Bank in order that the level
of said prices be maintained in real terms.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and

      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,



taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

                                ARTICLE IV

                 Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and public utility practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property,
and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
public utility and financial practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.

                                 ARTICLE V

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of
                  income and expenses and related statements) and
                  the records and accounts for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six (6) months after
                  the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
                  of its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
                  and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;



          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                  such records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. The Borrower shall not undertake any
investment in excess of the equivalent of two hundred thousand
dollars ($200,000) without the concurrence of the Bank.

      Section 5.03. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   establish prices for its services which would allow
the Borrower, under conditions of efficient operation at
reasonable levels of capacity utilization to cover: (i) the
operating costs of the Borrower; (ii) the charges of the
Private Operator for recurrent costs arising from operating the
systems and providing the services (personnel, energy, general
maintenance, chemicals and other consumables); (iii) the costs
of the Sirket attributable to the services provided to the
Borrower; (iv) reasonable contributions by the Borrower to its
future investment program; and (v) service payments on any
indebtedness of the Borrower; and

      (b)   adjust said prices each calendar quarter to reflect
changes in the Consumer Price Index of the Guarantor or other
indicator acceptable to the Bank during the previous calendar
quarter.

                                ARTICLE VI

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the Guarantor’s Laws or the Borrower’s Statutes shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in
such a way as to materially or adversely affect the ability of
the Borrower to carry out the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;

      (b)   that the EIB Loan Agreement shall have failed to
become effective by December 1, 1995, or such later date as the
Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement; and

      (c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower
                        for the financing of the Project shall
                        have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                        to the terms of the agreement providing
                        therefor, or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity



                        thereof.

            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                  under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                  for the Project are available to the Borrower
                  from other sources on terms and conditions
                  consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                  under this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in Section 6.01 (b) of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower;

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c)(i)(B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (d)(ii) of that Section; and

      (c)   any event specified in Section 6.01 (a) of this
Agreement shall occur.

                                ARTICLE VII

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

      (a)   the Sirket has been established under Law No. 6762
dated June 29, 1956 of the Guarantor;

      (b)   the consultants shall have been employed for the
purposes of Part D (2) (a) of the Project;

      (c)   the consultants shall have been employed for the
purposes of Part D (2) (b) of the Project; and

      (d)   all legal requirements for the acquisition of the
land for the construction of the sewage treatment plant,
provided under Part B of the Project, have been fulfilled and
there is no obstacle to the completion of the construction of
said sewage treatment plant.

      Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that all necessary legal action
has been taken and all necessary approvals given with respect
to the establishment of the Sirket and the acquisition of the
land for the sewage treatment plant, and that no obstacles
remain which would affect the completion of the construction of
said sewage treatment plant.

      Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                               ARTICLE VIII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses



      Section 8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the  purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            ASAT Genel Mudurlugu
            Kazim Ozalp Cad., No: 170
            Antalya
            Turkey

            Cable address:

                  ASAT Genel Mudurlugu
                  Antalya

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By    / s / Rachel Lomax
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                Europe and Central Asia

                        ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
                          AUTHORITY

                        By    / s / Mahfi Egilmez
                                                Authorized Representative

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated              % of



                         (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed

(1) Civil works               57,800,000        54%

(2) Goods                      4,700,000        55%

(3) Consultants’                                100%
    services:

    (a)  under                18,700,000
         Part D (1)
         of the Project

    (b)  under                 4,900,000
         Part D (2)
         of the Project

(4) Incremental recurrent
    costs:

    (a)  for the Sirket          200,000         100% of
         under Part (D) (1)                      expenditures
         of the Project                          through
                                                 August 31, 1996

    (b) for the PMU              200,000         100% of
        under Part (D) (2)                       expenditures
        of the Project                           through
                                                 November 30, 1996

(5) Unallocated              13,500,000
                            ___________

        TOTAL               100,000,000
                            ===========

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "incremental
recurrent costs" means, in connection with costs incurred under
Parts D (1) and D (2) of the Project, the costs of salaries,
communications, utilities and other consumables.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $600,000, may be made in respect of Category 3
(b) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after March 31, 1995.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
(a) for goods and works under contracts not exceeding
$1,000,000 equivalent, (b)  for consulting firms under
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (c) for
individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to meet in Antalya,
at least cost, the demand for water supply, sewerage and
stormwater drainage; (b) to develop new institutional
arrangements for management of such services and to introduce
private sector participation in the operation thereof; (c) to
implement appropriate cost recovery policies to enhance self-
financing of municipal services in Antalya; (d) to improve the
efficiency of utilization of existing sources and of water



usage in Antalya; and (e) to improve and sustain environmental
conditions and reduce health hazards in Antalya.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Water Supply Works

(1)       Rehabilitation of existing distribution networks by
replacing unsatisfactory sections.

(2)       Construction of about 24 new wells and replacement of
about eight pumps at pumping stations to increase the
production of three well fields.

(3)       Construction of about 40,000 m3 capacity distribution
reservoirs to provide storage capacity to meet water demand.

(4)       Replacement and extension of about 500 km of existing
distribution networks to supply consumers, including
construction of two new pumping stations, replacement of pumps
and replacement of water meters.

Part B:   Sewerage Works

(1)       Construction of a collection network of about 10 km
including a small temporary wastewater treatment plant in the
old part of Antalya and rehabilitation of the existing network
and septic tank at the small-scale industrial area.

(2)       Construction of new collectors and collection networks
of about 380 km to serve about 1,660 ha in the western part of
Antalya.

(3)       Construction of a preliminary wastewater treatment
plant with a capacity of about 90,000 m3/d at the west end of
Antalya, including a sea outfall.

Part C:   Stormwater Drainage Works

    Construction of missing sections on the networks, such as
culverts, curbs and channels, and removal of debris from
existing rivers, channels and ditches.

Part D:   Technical Assistance

    Provision of consultants’ services for:

    (1)   Project Implementation:

          (a)   Detailed design and construction supervision for
                the water supply, sewerage and stormwater
                drainage works.

          (b)   Hydrogeological survey development of groundwater
                facilities.

          (c)   Site survey and investigations for mapping of the
                water supply systems.

          (d)   Preparation of a comprehensive stormwater master
                plan.

    (2)   Institutional Development:

          (a)   Strengthening the PMU to assist the Borrower, the
                Antalya Metropolitan Municipality, the district
                municipalities and the Sirket in initiating,
                coordinating and supervising Project activities.

          (b)   Preparation of bidding documents, bid evaluation



                and contract negotiations for the private
                operation of water supply, sewerage and
                stormwater systems.

          (c)   Assistance to the Sirket through a twinning
                arrangement or contract with a water supply and
                sewerage operator for the management of services,
                planning and administration of contracts and the
                implementation of a training program.

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
2002.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                         Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 1 and November 1

    beginning November 1, 2000
    through November 1, 2011                  4,165,000

And on May 1, 2012                            4,205,000

_____________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                               Premium

                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable
                                   to the Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment multiplied by:



Not more than three years                            0.18
    before maturity

More than three years but                            0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                              0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                           0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity

More than 15 years before                            1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   General

    Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.

Part B:   International Competitive Bidding

1.  Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

2.  Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.        National Competitive Bidding

    (a)   Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or less per contract and $7,000,000 equivalent or
less in the aggregate, and (b) furniture estimated to cost
$125,000 or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.

2.   International Shopping

    Water meters and computer software estimated to cost
$250,000 equivalent or less per contract and $1,000,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

3.  National Shopping

    Computer accessories estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or
less per contract and $300,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines on the basis of
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.



Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Procurement Planning

    Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.  Prior Review

    With respect to each contract procured under the provisions
of Part B of this Schedule and each contract, estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, procured under the
provisions of Part C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.

3.  Post Review

    With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                          Implementation Program

1.  Responsibilities of the PMU and the Sirket



    The Borrower shall maintain the PMU with the
responsibilities set forth hereinafter until the Sirket has
been established and has demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the Bank that it has the capacity to perform the following
functions. The Sirket shall be responsible for consolidating
the administrative and financial management of water supply and
sewerage services provision for the Borrower. It shall have
overall management responsibility for the development of the
services, including physical and financial planning and
construction contract management. The Sirket shall be
responsible for issuing bidding documents for civil works and
administering the proposed evaluation and award of civil works
contracts and for the preparation of terms of reference,
administration of proposal evaluation and award of contracts
for consultants’ services and training and the supervision of
said contracts. It shall coordinate with the Private Operators
on developing and administering the information systems for
managing the operational and commercial activities and
reporting on overall financial results. The Sirket shall
evaluate the operational and financial performance of the
Private Operators on the basis of indicators specified in lease
and/or management contracts. The Sirket shall provide billing,
accounting and contractors payment services and shall be
responsible for the preparation of withdrawal applications
under the Loan, monitoring Project implementation and preparing
and furnishing to the Bank reports on Project implementation.
The Sirket shall have its accounts audited on an annual basis,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. For
the foregoing purposes, the Sirket shall employ, not later than
November 30, 1995, said staff and provide facilities as shall
be required for it to perform on behalf of the Borrower its
technical and administrative responsibilities under the
Project, including the employment of not more than ten (10)
professional persons whose qualifications and experience shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.

2.  Management of Water Supply and Sewerage Services

    The Borrower shall, through the Sirket: (a) not later than
October 31, 1995, issue the invitations for bids by Private
Operators to manage the operation of the water supply, sewerage
and stormwater drainage system; and (b) not later than May 31,
1996 enter into lease and/or management contracts for such
purpose satisfactory to the Bank.

3.  Management Assistance and Training

    The Borrower shall, through the Sirket, not later than April
30, 1996, enter into contracts satisfactory to the Bank for the
purpose of providing to the Sirket technical assistance for
management and training.

4.  Annual Review

    The Borrower shall, through the Sirket, not later than
September 30 of each year, review with the Bank the technical
and financial progress in implementing the Project, including
the cost recovery of the services. Following such review, the
Borrower shall take such action as agreed with the Bank with
respect to Project implementation, the investment program for
the following year and the projected tariffs and other
financial requirements to maintain self-sufficiency of the
services.

5.  Reporting Requirements

    The Borrower shall, through the Sirket, prepare and furnish
to the Guarantor and the Bank not later than 60 days after each
calendar quarter ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and
December 31, a consolidated report on Project implementation
for the preceding quarter covering the physical progress



measured against construction and procurement schedules and
monitoring indicators satisfactory to the Bank.

                                SCHEDULE 6

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$10,000,000.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.

         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by



said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directlyfrom the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 5.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
or

    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),



(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.