World Bank Document


                                               CONFORMED COPY

                                          LOAN NUMBER 3894 UZ

                       Loan Agreement

           (Cotton Sub-Sector Improvement Project)

                           between

                   REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

                             and

            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                       AND DEVELOPMENT

                     Dated June 14, 1995

                                          LOAN NUMBER 3894 UZ

                       LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
UZBEKISTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;

     WHEREAS the Bank has received a letter dated April 27,
1995, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designated to improve the efficiency of
the Borrower’s cotton sector and declaring the Borrower’s
commitment to the execution of these actions, objectives and
policies; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                          ARTICLE I

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



               General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:

     "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."

     (c)  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
     under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
     be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
     Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

     (a) "Agency Bank" means any commercial bank selected by
the Borrower in accordance with, and for the purposes referred
to in, Section 3.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement;

     (b) "CIU" means the component implementation unit referred
to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;

     (c) "GOZKOMPROGNOZSTAT" means the State Committee on
Forecasting and Statistics of the Borrower;

     (d) "MOA" mean the Ministry of Agriculture of the
Borrower;

     (e) "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;

     (f) "Oblast Seed Certification and Seed Law Units" means
the units of the Seed
Certification and Seed Law Agency in each oblast;

     (g) "On-lending Procedures, Terms and Conditions" means
the procedures, eligibility criteria, terms and conditions of
Private Sub-projects referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of
this Agreement;

     (h) "PIU" means the project implementation unit referred
to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;

     (i) "Private Enterprise" means any legal entity,
established pursuant to paragraph B of Schedule 7 of this
Agreement, to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made
a Sub-loan pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;

     (j) "Private Sub-project" means a specific development
project under Part A.2 of the Project which is intended to be
carried out by a Private Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of
a Sub-loan;



     (k) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.05 of this Agreement;

     (l) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of a letter (P230-0 UZ) dated February
9, 1994 and April 22, 1994 between the Borrower and the Bank;

     (m) "Public Project Entity" means SIFAT, UZNIIZR or any of
the departments, institutes, agencies or affiliates which may
be designated pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement,
which the Borrower intends to engage for the carrying out of
Parts A.1, B, C, D and E of the Project as referred to in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

     (n) "Seed Law" means the law to be enacted pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (o) "Seed Policy" means the policy to be adopted, pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, on the
measures to be taken by the Borrower to promote the production
of quality seeds in Uzbekistan;

     (p) "Seed Certification and Seed Law Agency" means the
agency responsible for seed certification and implementation of
the Seed Law under the administrative oversight of MOA;

     (q) "SIFAT" means Enterprise for Standardization and
Certification of Cotton of the Borrower;

     (r) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

     (s) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Private
Enterprise for a Private Sub-project;

     (t) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement
between the Borrower and a Private Enterprise, entered into
pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement, for the
financing of a Private Sub-project out of the proceeds of the
Loan, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to such Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

     (u) "UZAGROINFORM" means the Uzbekistan Information
Division within MOA; and

     (v) "UZNIIZR" means the Uzbekistan Institute of Crop
Protection.

                         ARTICLE II

                          The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of sixty-six million dollars
($66,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,



open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

     (c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

     (c) For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period
               ending on the date immediately preceding each
               date specified in Section 2.06 of this
               Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
               in which this Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
               as reasonably determined by the Bank and
               expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
               outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
               or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
               to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after July
               1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
               otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
               this Section.

         (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or
               the second six months of a calendar year.

     (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
          outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
          Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
          determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the



          dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
          the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
          principal amount outstanding during the preceding
          Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."

               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
          each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
          respect of such Quarter."

               "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
          1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                         ARTICLE III

                  Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A.1, B,
C, D and E of the Project through Public Project Entities and
such other Public Project Entities as may be designated by the
Borrower from time to time, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
agricultural, engineering, accounting, information technology
and environmental standards and practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

     (b) For the purpose of carrying out Parts A.1, B, C, D and
E of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to each of
the designated Public Project Entities the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for carrying out of the
Project, including the corresponding portions of the proceeds
of the Loan, under contractual or other arrangements
satisfactory to the bank.

     (c) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out Part A.2
of the Project, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  select, in accordance with criteria
               satisfactory to the Bank, an Agency Bank
               capable of administering the Sub-loans;

          (ii) make available to each Private Enterprise, out
               of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
               to time to Category (3) of the table set forth
               in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
               the amount of financing required for its
               respective Private Sub-project under a
               Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
               between the Borrower and the Private
               Enterprise, under terms and conditions
               satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include,
               without limitation, the terms and conditions
               set forth in Part C of Schedule 7 to this
               Agreement; and



         (iii) cause the Private Enterprises to perform
               in accordance with the provisions of the
               respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements, all
               the obligations set forth therein.

     (b)  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall select and approve the Private Sub-projects in accordance
with the procedures and eligibility criteria set forth or
referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
the Sub-loans in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.

     Section 3.03. In order to facilitate the efficient
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall establish, or
cause to be established, and thereafter maintain, with staff
and other resources, and under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank:

     (a)  a PIU within GOZKOMPROGNOZSTAT responsible for, inter
alia, various administrative functions relating to the day-to-
day coordination and execution of the Project; and

     (b)  CIUs within each Public Project Entity responsible
for carrying out Parts A.1, B, C, D and E of the Project.

     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:

     (a) carry out all studies included in the Project under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, which, when
applicable, shall include specific programs or plans of action
to meet the objectives of the Project;

     (b) promptly after the completion of each study, furnish
to the Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations
including such programs or plans of action; and

     (c) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
findings, recommendations and programs or plans of action.

     Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall for purposes
of the Project:

     (a)  open and maintain in a commercial bank, in the name
of the PIU, an account (the Project Account), in local
currency, to be used for financing the expenditures required to
be made by Public Project Entities in conjunction with the
implementation of the Project, the establishment and
maintenance of the necessary facilities for the carrying out of
the Project, and the coordination of Project activities and
shall, for this purpose, make an initial deposit in such an
Account in an amount equivalent to $500,000;

     (b)  for each fiscal year during the execution of the
Project, make appropriate budgetary allocations to replenish
such Project Account on a quarterly basis, and ensure
availability of an amount equivalent to $500,000 at the
beginning of each quarter for the financing of expenditures by
Public Project Entities during the following fiscal year, in
amounts satisfactory to the Bank.

     Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.



                         ARTICLE IV

                Financial and Other Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

     (b) The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
               paragraph (a) of this Section including those
               for the Special Account for each fiscal year
               audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year, the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and

         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
               concerning said records and accounts and
               the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.

     (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
               records and accounts reflecting such
               expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank
               has received the audit report for the fiscal
               year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
               Account or payment out of the Special Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;

         (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to
               examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to in
               paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
               report of such audit contains a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such
               fiscal year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.

     Section 4.02. The Seed Certification and Seed Law Agency
shall:

     (a) not later than June 30, 1998, prepare, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank a
plan for the full recovery of the costs of its services through
the certification of seed; and



     (b) thereafter finalize the said plan taking into
consideration the Bank’s views thereon and ensure recovery of
the costs of its services in accordance therewith not later
than June 30, 1999.

     Section 4.03. SIFAT shall:

     (a) not later than June 30, 1998, prepare, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank a
plan for the full recovery of the costs of its services through
the grading of cotton; and

     (b) thereafter finalize the said plan taking into
consideration the Bank’s views thereon and ensure recovery of
the costs of its services in accordance therewith not later
than June 30, 1999.

     Section 4.04. UZAGROINFORM shall:

     (a) not later than June 30, 1997, prepare, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank a
plan for the full recovery of the costs of irrigation water;
and

     (b) thereafter finalize the said plan taking into
consideration the Bank’s views thereon and ensure recovery of
the cost of irrigation water in accordance therewith not later
than June 30, 1998.

                          ARTICLE V

                 Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

     (a) that the Project Account has been opened in the name
of the PIU with an initial deposit in sums equivalent to five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000);

     (b) that the deputy directors of PIU and the managers of
CIUs have been appointed under terms of reference and other
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank and that a
short list of consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, to provide
technical assistance to PIU has been prepared, and letters of
invitation have been issued to such short-listed consultants;
and

     (c) that the work plans and the associated budgets for the
first year of implementation of the Project have been prepared
and submitted to the Bank.

     Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                         ARTICLE VI

          Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:



          Ministry of Finance
          Mustakillik Meydani
          Tashkent
          Republic of Uzbekistan

                                        Telex:

                                        116360 IKBOL

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C           82987 (FTCC)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                    REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

                    By /s/ Fatikh Teshabaev
                                    Authorized Representative

                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                    By /s/ Yukon Huang
                               Acting Regional Vice President
                                      Europe and Central Asia

                         SCHEDULE 1

           Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

     1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated               % of
                          (Expressed in           Expenditures
                             Dollar                   to be
Category                   Equivalent)              Financed

(1)  Civil works

     (a) under Part          500,000              80%
         A.1 of the
         Project



     (b) under Parts B,    2,900,000              80%
         C, D and E of the
         Project

(2)  Goods                                        100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
     (a) under Part        1,725,000              100% of local
         A.1 of the                               expenditures
         Project                                  (ex-factory
                                                  cost) and 80%
     (b) under Parts B,   17,575,000              of local
         C, D and E of the                        expenditures for
         Project                                  other items
                                                  procured locally

(3)  Goods and civil      28,400,000              100% of foreign
     works financed                               expenditures,
     through Sub-loans                            100% of local
     under Part A.2                               expenditures
     Project                                      (ex-factory cost)
                                                  and 80% of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally

(4)  Training and
     study tours

     (a) under Part          115,000              100%
         A.1 of the
         Project

     (b) under Parts B,    1,085,000              100%
         C, D and E of the
         Project

(5)  Consultants’
     services

     (a) under Part A.1      700,000             100%
         of the Project

     (b) under Parts B,    4,150,000             100%
         C and D of the
         Project

     (c) under Part E      1,600,000             100%
         of the Project

(6)  Incremental
     operating costs

     (a) under Part A.1      210,000             25% of expend-
         of the Project                          itures incurred
                                                 through June 30,
                                                 1997; 15% of
                                                 expenditures
                                                 incurred between
                                                 July 1, 1997 and
                                                 June 30, 1998

     (b) under Parts B,     1,490,000            25% of expend-
         C, D and E of the                       itures incurred
         Project                                 through June 30,
                                                 1997; 15% of
                                                 expenditures
                                                 incurred between
                                                 July 1, 1997 and
                                                 June 30, 1998

(7)  Refunding of             550,000            Amounts due



     Project                                     pursuant to
     Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                     of this Agreement

(8)  Unallocated            5,000,000

                           ==========
        TOTAL              66,000,000
                           ==========

2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

   (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;

   (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and

   (c) the term "incremental operating costs" means operation
and maintenance costs incurred as a result of the carrying out
of the Project and includes, inter alia, costs with respect to:
(i) maintenance and operation of equipment procured under the
Project; (ii) salaries paid to the staff hired for purposes of
the Project; and (iii) consumable office supplies and
materials.

   3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

   (a)  expenditures under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (4)
(a), (5) (a) and (6) (a) of the Project unless the Seed Law has
been enacted and the Seed Policy has been adopted, satisfactory
to the Bank; and

   (b)  withdrawals by a Private Enterprise under any Sub-loan
for expenditures made to finance any contract under Category
(3) of this Schedule, unless: (i) an agreement between the
Borrower and the Agency Bank to act as an agent of the Borrower
for Sub-loans has been entered into satisfactory to the Bank;
and (ii) the Sub-loan and the Private Sub-project, in respect
of which such Sub-loan is made, have been approved in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement;

   4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods, works and employment of
firms not exceeding $250,000 equivalent, and contracts for
employment of individuals and for training programs not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                         SCHEDULE 2

                 Description of the Project

   The objectives of the Project are to support the: (a)
elimination of state orders, liberalization of prices, and
privatization of the seed industry in the cotton sub-sector;
(b) development of technology to eliminate the negative impacts
of past irrigation and pest control practices on the
environment and productivity; and (c) enhancement of the cotton
sub-sector’s foreign exchange earning capacity.

   The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:



Part A: Seed Industry

1. Institutional Framework

   Strengthening the seed quality control functions of the
Public Project Entities through: (i) provision and upgrading of
equipment required for testing, certification and registration
of seed; (ii) training and study tours to improve cotton
breeding, seed certification and seed production and marketing;
and (iii) technical assistance to support Public Entities and
private seed companies.

2. Seed Enterprises and Seed Farms

   Provision of Sub-loans to Private Project Entities to carry
out Private Sub-projects for the development of seed
production, processing and marketing.

Part B:      Cotton Marketing

1. Cotton Grading System

   Improvement of the cotton grading system through provision
and installation of High Volume Instrument (HVI) in one central
and up to sixteen regional classing centers.

2. Information Processing and Dissemination

   Establishment of a system for the management and
dissemination of the information generated through the grading
system.

3. Technical Assistance

   Establishment of a cotton grading and marketing school and,
if necessary, its affiliates, and provision of training and
study tours in the areas of, inter alia: cotton grading,
operation of fiber testing instruments and cotton classing.

Part C:      Integrated Pest Management

1. Automated Mass Rearing Technology

   Provision of equipment and technical assistance for: (i) the
preparation of plans and specifications for mass rearing units;
(ii) the production and trial operations of prototype units;
and (iii) the development of new mass rearing units.

2. Mechanized Dispersal Technology

   Provision of equipment to improve dispersal technology to
broaden biological control of cotton pests.

3. Application of Pesticides

   Provision of equipment for the development of improved
pesticide spraying to allow the integration of biological and
chemical control of pests that will mitigate the impact of
pesticides on the environment.

4. Technical Assistance and Training

   Provision of technical assistance and training to support
the development and manufacturing of technology for integrated
pest management and to develop a pesticide policy and a
farmers’ pesticide handbook.

Part D: On-Farm Irrigation Scheduling

   Provision of equipment and training to support the
introduction of irrigation scheduling technology to demonstrate
effective ways to reduce water use in cotton production while



improving land productivity and minimizing water-based damage
to the environment.

Part E:      Project Implementation Unit and Program Design

   Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Public
Project Entities through provision of technical assistance and
training to implement their respective activities under the
Project and to assist them in designing future investment
programs in agriculture.

                            * * *

   The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.

                         SCHEDULE 3

                    Amortization Schedule

                                  Payment of Principal
   Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*

December 1, 2000                      1,270,000
June 1, 2001                          1,315,000
December 1, 2001                      1,360,000
June 1, 2002                          1,410,000
December 1, 2002                      1,460,000
June 1, 2003                          1,510,000
December 1, 2003                      1,565,000
June 1, 2004                          1,620,000
December 1, 2004                      1,675,000
June 1, 2005                          1,735,000
December 1, 2005                      1,800,000
June 1, 2006                          1,860,000
December 1, 2006                      1,930,000
June 1, 2007                          1,995,000
December 1, 2007                      2,065,000
June 1, 2008                          2,140,000
December 1, 2008                      2,215,000
June 1, 2009                          2,295,000
December 1, 2009                      2,375,000
June 1, 2010                          2,460,000
December 1, 2010                      2,545,000
June 1, 2011                          2,640,000
December 1, 2011                      2,730,000
June 1, 2012                          2,830,000
December 1, 2012                      2,930,000
June 1, 2013                          3,030,000
December 1, 2013                      3,140,000
June 1, 2014                          3,250,000
December 1, 2014                      3,365,000
June 1, 2015                          3,485,000

_____________________________

*  The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                   Premiums on Prepayment

   Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

   Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                  The interest rate
                                  (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum)



                                  applicable to the Loan
                                  on the day of prepayment
                                  multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
   before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
   not more than six years
   before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
   not more than 11 years
   before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
   more than 16 years
   before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
   more than 18 years
   before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
   maturity

                         SCHEDULE 4

            Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: General

   Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.

Part B: International Competitive Bidding

   1.  Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

   2.  The following provisions shall apply to goods to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.

   (a)  Grouping of contracts

   To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each.

   (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods

   The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

   1. Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per
contract and  $6,600,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

   2. Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $1,800,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be



procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

   3. Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing
$1,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.

   4. Contracts for civil works: (a) to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more per contract shall be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding procedures, advertised locally, by using
the Bank’s standard documentation for small works, as may be
amended to take into account exclusive use of local currency,
local language and local procedures for settlement of disputes;
and (b) to cost the equivalent of less than $250,000 per
contract and $2,100,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be
procured on the basis of comparison and evaluation of at least
three bids from qualified contractors, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

   1.  Procurement Planning

   Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.

   2.  Prior Review

   With respect to: (a) each contract for goods procured under
Part B.1 and Part C.3; and (b) the first two contracts for
works procured under Part C.4 hereof, as well as each contract
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $600,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.

   3.  Post Review

   With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part D, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1. Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less



than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                         SCHEDULE 5

                   Implementation Program

   The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.

A. Overall Coordination and Management of the Project

1. GOZKOMPROGNOZSTAT, through the PIU, shall be responsible for
coordinating and monitoring the overall implementation of the
Project.

2. Within GOZKOMPROGNOZSTAT, the PIU shall be responsible for
day-to-day work related to monitoring Project implementation,
and assisting CIUs with budgeting, procurement, disbursement,
auditing, reporting, monitoring and evaluation. The PIU shall
also be responsible for appraisal and administration of Sub-
loans through the Agency Bank.

3. The CIUs within the Public Project Entities shall be
responsible for coordinating and managing the implementation of
the relevant activities described under the corresponding Parts
of the Project.

B. Part A of the Project

1. Part A.1 of the Project shall be implemented through the
Seed Certification and Seed Law Agency and Seed Certification
and Seed Law Units.

2. Part A.2 of the Project shall be implemented by PrivateEnterprises and coordinated 
through the PIU.  PIU shall, inter
alia: (i) appraise business plans for each of the proposed
Private Sub-projects; (ii) coordinate with the Agency Bank with
respect to accounting, reporting, and repayments of Sub-loans;
and (iii) organize training and technical assistance to Private
Enterprises.

C. Part B of the Project

        SIFAT, through its CIU, shall be responsible for the
implementation of Part B of the Project.

D. Part C of the Project

        UZNIIZR, through its CIU, shall be responsible for the
implementation of Part C of the Project.

E. Part D of the Project

        UZAGROINFORM, through its CIU, shall be responsible for
the implementation of Part D of the Project.

                         SCHEDULE 6

                       Special Account

 1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

   (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)



through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

   (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

   (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $5,000,000.

   2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

   3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

   (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

   (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
             Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
             deposits into the Special Account at such
             intervals as the Bank shall specify.

        (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
             Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
             and other evidence required pursuant to
             paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
             payments in respect of which replenishment is
             requested.  On the basis of each such request,
             the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
             withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
             the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
             shall have requested and as shall have been shown
             by said documents and other evidence to have been
             paid out of the Special Account for eligible
             expenditures. All such deposits shall be
             withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
             the respective eligible Categories, and in the
             respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
             justified by said documents and other evidence.

   4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

   5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

   (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of



Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

   (b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

   (c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

   (d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

   6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

   (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.

   (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

   (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.

                         SCHEDULE 7

       On-Lending Procedures, Eligibility Criteria and
        Terms and Conditions of Private Sub-projects

A. Procedures

1. A Private Enterprise seeking a Sub-loan shall prepare a
business plan for a proposed Private Sub-project in accordance
with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.



2. The PIU shall appraise the proposed Private Sub-project and
shall ensure that each qualifying Private Sub-project for which
a Sub-loan is proposed to be made is submitted in advance to
the Bank for approval, such approval to be based on a review
and appraisal of the proposed Private Sub-project in such
manner and of such scope as the Bank shall reasonably request.

3. Following the approval of the Sub-loan by the PIU and the
Bank, the Borrower, through GOZKOMPROGNOZSTAT, shall enter into
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Private Enterprise giving
the Borrower legal rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Bank and the Borrower, and containing, inter alia, the
terms and conditions enumerated in Part C of this Schedule 7.

B. Eligibility Criteria

   Sub-loans shall be made only to Private Enterprises, wholly
privately-owned, duly established, registered and operating
under the laws of the Borrower, which as the Borrower shall
have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed:

   1.   is funding working capital needs through credit or
contribution of capital by the founders thereof;

   2.   has a staffing plan satisfactory to the Bank for
employment of management and essential staff;

   3.   has adopted a Charter satisfactory to the Bank; and

   4.   has a business and work plan satisfactory to the Bank.

C. Terms and Conditions

1. Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall require the Private
Enterprise to, inter alia:

   (i)  carry out and operate the Private Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, economic, financial, agricultural, environmental,
and managerial standards;

   (ii) maintain separate adequate accounting and financial
records, including a separate bank account related to the Sub-
loan;

   (iii)     procure the goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph D of this Schedule and use such goods and services
exclusively in carrying out of the Private Sub-project;

   (iv) enable the Borrower, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, to
inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Private Sub-project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;

   (v)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice, including insurance
covering hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation,
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to
the place of use or installation and, if appropriate,
installation and testing, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Private Enterprise
to replace or repair such goods;

   (vi) prepare and promptly furnish to the Borrower, for
forwarding to the Bank, if so requested by the Bank, all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Private Enterprise and to the



benefits to be derived from the Private Sub-project;

   (vii)     have its records, accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and

   (viii)    employ qualified managers and/or enter into
satisfactory business arrangements to ensure successful
implementation of the Private Sub-project;

2. Each Sub-loan shall:

   (i)  be expressed in Dollars and be repayable (principal and
interest) in Dollars, except for Sub-loans made to Private
Enterprises, operating exclusively in the local market, which
can be repaid in Sum at the exchange rate determined by the
Central Bank of the Borrower on the date the repayment is due;

   (ii) carry an interest rate equal to the 10-year US Treasury
Bond plus a margin of three percent (3%) to cover
administrative costs (including any commission payable to the
Agency Bank) and risks;

   (iii)     be issued for a maximum maturity period of ten
years including a maximum grace period of three years; and

   (iv) be subject to a right of suspension upon failure by
such Private Enterprise to perform its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

D. Procurement

1. Except as provided in sub-paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more per
contract shall be procured in accordance with Part B of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

2. Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $3,000,000 per contract may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3. Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost less
than $50,000 per contract may be procured in accordance with
Part C.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

4. Civil works shall be procured following the procedures in
Part C.4 (a) and (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.