World Bank Document


                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3888-IND

                              Loan Agreement

                 (Village Infrastructure Project for Java)

                                  between

                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated June 29, 1995

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3888-IND

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1985, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:

            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country
            which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
            produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
            the Charter of the United Nations."

      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
                  under which any further withdrawals under the
                  Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions
                  of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s
                  Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "BAPPENAS" means the National Development Planning
Agency of the Borrower and includes any successor or successors
thereto;

      (b)   "BAPPEDAs (Level I) and (Level II)" mean the
development planning agencies of the Borrower at the provincial
and Kabupaten levels, respectively;

      (c)   "Bupati" means Head of Kabupaten;

      (d)   "Camat" means Head of Kecamatan;

      (e)   "Kabupaten" means district, an administrative
division of the Borrower;

      (f)   "DPUK" and "DPUKs" mean singularly the Office of
Public Works of a Kabupaten and collectively the Offices of
Public Works of Kabupatens;

      (g)   "Grant" and "Grants" mean singularly the grant and
collectively the grants to be made available by the Borrower to
the Project Villages out of its own resources and the proceeds
of the Loan in accordance with in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement;

      (h)   "IDT Program" means Inpres Desa Tertinggal Program,
one of the Borrower’s poverty reduction programs;

      (i)   "Kepala Desa" means elected Head of village;

      (j)   "Kecamatan" means an administrative Sub-district of



the Kabupaten;

      (k)   "LKMD" means a village community group headed by the
Kepala Desa;

      (l)   "MHA" means the Ministry of Home Affairs of the
Borrower;

      (m)   "MPW" means the Ministry of Public Works of the
Borrower;

      (n)   "Project Village" and "Project Villages" mean
singularly a village, and collectively the villages selected
for participation in the Project by the Borrower as set forth
in Part A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (o)   "PMU" means the project management unit established
and operating within BAPPENAS pursuant to Ministerial Decree
(Kepmen), No. 008/KET/2/1995, dated February 20, 1995;

      (p)   "Project year" means  each period of twelve months,
beginning the first Project year, on April 1, 1995;

      (q)   "Compensation Guidelines" means the framework
prepared by the Borrower in agreement with the Bank for
carrying out the compensation of Affected Persons as set forth
in Part C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and in the Project
Manual, and as such Guide-lines may be amended from time to
time in agreement with the Bank;

      (r)   "Affected Person" or "AP" means a person who, on
account of the execution of Part A of the Project, has or would
have his/her:

            (i)   standard of living adversely affected;

            (ii)  right, title or interest in any house, land
                  (including premises, agricultural and grazing
                  land)or any other fixed or movable asset
                  acquired or possessed, temporarily or
                  permanently; or

           (iii)  business, occupation, work or place of
                  residence or habitat adversely affected.

      (s)   "Project Performance Indicators" means those
indicators designed to measure the Borrower’s performance in
achieving Project objectives and agreed to between the Borrower
and the Bank;

      (t)   "Project Manual" means the manual prepared by the
Borrower, in consultation with the Bank, to assist the Project
Villages in the implementation of the Project through the
descrip-tion of, inter alia, procurement procedures and
standard documenta-tion, reporting requirements, Project
Performance Indicators, Guide-lines for Compensation and
Resettlement, environmental criteria applicable to sub-project
design, maintenance provisions for works carried out under the
Project and criteria for the selection of sub-projects;

      (u)   "Rupiah" or "Rp" means Indonesian Rupiah, the
currency of the Borrower;

      (v)   "Sub-project" and "Sub-projects" mean singularly a
sub-project and collectively the public infrastructure sub-
projects referred to in Part A of the Project;

      (w)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (x)   "Fiscal year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year which



runs from April 1 to March 31.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of seventy two million five
hundred thousand dollars ($72,500,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Quali-fied Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                   to fund:

                   (A)  the Bank’s investments; and



                   (B)  loans which may be made by the Bank after
                        July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates deter-
                        mined otherwise than as provided in para-
                        graph (a) of this Section.

           (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or
                   the second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, financial, social and environmental
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      (b)   Notwithstanding the generalities of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to:

            (i)    ensure that the financing of the Project from
                   its own resources is maintained during the
                   implementation of the Project at such levels
                   as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
                   and

            (ii)   make available an amount up to one hundred and
                   twenty million Rupiah (Rp.120,000,000) to each
                   Project Village on a grant basis.

      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.



      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services
required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and

      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after
                   the end of each such year, commencing on
                   October 30, 1996, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal



                   year in which the last withdrawal from the
                   Loan Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

           (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to
                   examine such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during
                   such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                   and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.

                                 ARTICLE V

                                Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VI

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

           Minister of Finance
           Ministry of Finance
           c/o Directorate General of Budget
           Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
           P. O. Box 139
           Jakarta 10710, Indonesia

           Cable address:                 Telex:

                FINMINISTRY                   45799 DJMLN-IA,
                Jakarta                       44319 DEPKEU-IA

     For the Bank:

           International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America

           Cable address:                 Telex:

                INTBAFRAD                    248423 (RCA)
                                              28987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their



duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.

                              REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                              By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
                                                   Authorized Representative

                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                              By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                      East Asia and Pacific

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                 Amount of the
                                 Loan Allocated          % of
                                  (Expressed          Expenditures
                                   in Dollar             to be
          Category                Equivalent)          Financed

1.  Goods, works and              59,000,000         90%
    services under
    Grants

2.  Consultants’                  10,000,000         100%
    services

3.  Unallocated                    3,500,000
                                  ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
          TOTAL                  $72,500,000
                                  ==========

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and

    (c)   the term "goods, works and services under Grants" means
expenditures incurred by the Project Villages to carry out
approved Sub-projects.



3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $7,200,000, may be made in respect of Categories
(1) and (2) on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after January 31, 1995.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower for:

    (a)   goods, works and services under Category (1) of
Paragraph 1 of this Schedule;

    (b)   the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000; and

    (c)   the employment of individual consultants, estimated to
cost less than $50,000.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the implementation on Java of a pilot program aimed at:

    (a)   improving the standard of living, and access of
selected Project Villages to public infrastructure;

    (b)   promoting job creation through community participation
in the construction of public works; and

    (c)   supporting the Borrower’s decentralization policies,
including the review of non-infrastructure constraints to trade
and transport in the rural areas.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Construction of Public Works

    Provision of Grants to about 1200 Project Villages on Java
to carry out public infrastructure Sub-projects.

Part B:   Strengthening Project Implementation Capabilities

1.  Strengthening the implementation and administration
capabilities of Project Villages to, inter alia, design,
procure and construct public works and ensure the quality and
sustainability of such works.

2.  Strengthening the management, supervision, and socio-
economic monitoring and evaluation capabilities of PMU.

                 *            *             *            *

        The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                                Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)*

February 1, 2001                                     1,395,000
August 1, 2001                                       1,445,000



February 1, 2002                                     1,495,000
August 1, 2002                                       1,550,000
February 1, 2003                                     1,600,000
August 1, 2003                                       1,660,000
February 1, 2004                                     1,720,000
August 1, 2004                                       1,780,000
February 1, 2005                                     1,840,000
August 1, 2005                                       1,905,000
February 1, 2006                                     1,975,000
August 1, 2006                                       2,045,000
February 1, 2007                                     2,120,000
August 1, 2007                                       2,195,000
February 1, 2008                                     2,270,000
August 1, 2008                                       2,350,000
February 1, 2009                                     2,435,000
August 1, 2009                                       2,520,000
February 1, 2010                                     2,610,000
August 1, 2010                                       2,700,000
February 1, 2011                                     2,800,000
August 1, 2011                                       2,895,000
February 1, 2012                                     3,000,000
August 1, 2012                                       3,105,000
February 1, 2013                                     3,215,000
August 1, 2013                                       3,330,000
February 1, 2014                                     3,450,000
August 1, 2014                                       3,570,000
February 1, 2015                                     3,695,000
August 1, 2015                                       3,830,000

_____________________________

*  The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                       Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                         The interest rate
                                         (expressed as a
                                         percentage per annum)
                                         applicable to the Loan
                                         on the day of prepayment
                                         multiplied by:

Not more than three years                      0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                      0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                        0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                     0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not                     0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before                      1.00



    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I      Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   General

    Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.

Part B:   Procurement Procedures

1.  National Shopping

    Goods estimated to cost fifty-five thousand dollars
($55,000) equivalent or less per contract, and five million
dollars ($5,000,000) equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

2.  Procurement of Small Works

    Works estimated to cost fifty-five thousand dollars
($55,000) equivalent or less per contract, and not to exceed
five million ($5,000,000) in the aggregate, shall be procured
under lumpsum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors
in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall
include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and
who has the experience and resources to successfully complete
the contract.

3.  Direct Contracting

    Goods and works necessary to carry out the Sub-projects
referred to under Part A of the Project estimated to cost ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) equivalent, or less per contract,
and costing ten million dollars ($10,000,000) equivalent, or
less in the aggregate, may be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.

4.  Community Participation

    Works required for Part A of the Project costing sixty-five
million dollars ($65,000,000) equivalent in the aggregate shall
be procured in accordance with a procurement plan and
procedures acceptable to the Bank and described in the Project
Manual.

Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
          Post Review

    With respect to contracts for goods and works, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

Section II      Employment of Consultants

1.  Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines



for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to:

    (a)   contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) equivalent each; or

    (b)   contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000)
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review
shall not apply to:

          (i)  the terms of reference for such contracts;

          (ii)  single-source selection of consulting firms;

         (iii)  assignments of a critical nature, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank;

          (iv)  amendments to contracts for the employment of
                consulting firms raising the contract value to
                one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
                equivalent or above; or

          (v)  amendments to contracts for the employment of
               individual consultants raising the contract value
               to fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent or
               above.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                          Implementation Program

Part A:   Implementation Actions

     Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall select Project Villages and sub-projects in
accordance, inter alia, with the following provisions.

1.  Selection of Project Villages

    (a)   A village of the Borrower shall qualify as a Project
Village if the Borrower has selected such village, on the basis
of criteria satisfactory to the Bank including, inter alia:

          (i)  the village is located in the provinces of Java;

          (ii)  the village has been included in the Borrower’s
                IDT Program; and

         (iii)  the village has at least 700 inhabitants.

    (b)   The Borrower shall, throughout Project implementation,
ensure that the selection of Project Villages is carried out in
accordance with the following procedures:

          (i)  Bupatis, in consultation with the Camats, shall
               select the Project Villages taking into account
               the criteria described under Paragraph (a) above;



          (ii)  Bupatis shall prepare by not later than September
                30, 1995, and furnish to the PMU and the Bank for
                approval, by not later than December 31, 1995, a
                list of proposed Project Villages to be included
                in the second and eventual third Project years;
                and

         (iii)  Bupatis and Camats shall have issued to the
                Project Villages, by not later than April
                1, in each Project year, public information
                aimed at disclosing to villagers and their
                representatives, all procedural, technical,
                administrative, financial and environmental
                aspects pertaining to the selection,
                design, preparation and implementation of
                Sub-projects.

2.  Selection and Implementation of Sub-projects

    (a)   A Sub-project shall qualify as eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan only if:

          (i)  the Sub-project is a public infrastructure and is
               technically, environmentally viable, and
               economically justified by the number of users;

          (ii)  the Sub-project proposal has been publicly
                discussed among, and agreed to by the villagers
                in all Project Villages under the coordination of
                the Kepala Desa/LKMD;

         (iii)  the Sub-project proposal has been submitted
                to the respective Camat for review and
                comments; and

          (iv)  the Sub-project proposal has been submitted to
                the Bupatis for information.

    (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that, prior to the carrying
out of works under proposed Sub-projects, the field engineers
shall have completed a technical review of such Sub-project
prior to its approval or replacement by an alternative Sub-
project, if necessary.  The field engineer shall confirm the
following:

          (i)  all selection criteria described under paragraph
               2 (a) above have been complied with;

          (ii)  all necessary measures have been taken to avoid
                or minimize land acquisition and displacement of
                Affected Persons under the proposed Sub-project;

         (iii)  necessary funding to fully finance the
                proposed Sub-project has been obtained
                including availability of the Grant and any
                voluntary contributions to be made by the
                respective Project Village;

          (iv)  appropriate engineering and environmental
                standards and practices that would minimize any
                land acquisition and avoid involuntary
                resettlement of Affected Persons have been
                considered to design the Sub-project;

          (v)  Compensation Guidelines have been complied with,
               and, if applicable, appropriate compensation
               arrangements have been completed and are
               satisfactory to the Affected Persons as set forth
               under such Guidelines and Part C of this Schedule;

          (vi)  contractual arrangements to procure civil works



                and goods, in accordance with the provisions of
                Part B.4 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this
                Agreement have been finalized in accordance with
                the provisions of the Project Manual;

         (vii)  an implementation plan for the completion
                of the Sub-project has been prepared in
                accordance with the provisions of the
                Project Manual; and

         (viii) a maintenance program for the works to be
                carried out under the Sub-project has been
                prepared in accordance with terms
                satisfactory to the Bank, which shall
                include, inter alia, assignment of
                maintenance responsibilities in the
                respective Project Village, the preparation
                of training programs to strengthen the
                maintenance capabilities of the Village,
                and the identification of available sources
                of financing to carry out such programs.

     (c)   The Borrower shall cause the Project Villages to carry
out the Sub-projects approved for the respective Project year,
in accordance with a timetable and guidelines agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank and described in the Project Manual.

3.  Without limitation upon the provision of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause the PMU to prepare
and submit to the Bank for its review:

    (a)   starting September 30, 1995, and until the completion
of the Project, quarterly progress reports; and

    (b)   an annual report by March 31 of each Project year.

4.  The Borrower shall:

    (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
the Project Performance Indicators, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

    (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank on or about January 1, 1996, a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof during the period following such date; and

    (c)   review with the Bank, by February 1, 1996, or such
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Bank’s views on the matter.

6.  The Borrower shall:

    (a)   carry out every year during the implementation of the
Project, annual technical audits, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank, for Project quality assurance, including, inter alia,
performance of civil works, consultants’ contracts, procurement
of goods and completion of Sub-projects; and

    (b)   promptly after completing said audits, furnish to the
Bank the recommendations submitted as part of said audits.



Part B:   Agencies and Institutions responsible for Project
          implementation

1.  BAPPENAS, through its PMU, as hereinafter defined, shall be
responsible for the overall coordination of the Project.

2.  The Project Management Unit (PMU) established within
BAPPENAS to oversee Project implementation, comprising
representatives of, inter alia, MOF, MHA and MPW, shall be
maintained through Project implementation with staffing in
adequate numbers and qualifications as agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.

3.  BAPPEDAs (Level I) shall appoint, and thereafter maintain
throughout Project implementation, qualified counterpart staff
to work closely with the senior engineering staff employed
under the Project.

4.  BAPPEDA (Level II) shall be responsible in each Kabupaten
for the coordination of all Project-related activities with
other relevant agencies and departments of the Borrower.

5.  DPUK shall be the executing agency at the Kabupaten level.

6.  The Borrower shall, by not later than March 31 in every
Project year, cause the DPUKs overseeing Project Villages to
select and employ, and thereafter maintain, until the
completion of the Project, qualified and experienced Project
Managers (Pimpros), in adequate numbers.  The Pimpros shall be
responsible for assisting their respective DPUKs in the record
keeping of expenditures incurred by the Borrower during the
implementation of the Project.

7.  The LKMD in each Project Village shall be responsible for
the implementation of Sub-projects approved for such Village.

8.  The Borrower shall ensure, throughout Project
implementation:

    (a)   that the Project Manual is made available to Project
Villages; and

    (b)   that such Manual is periodically updated, if needed, in
consultation with the Bank.

Part C:   Compensation for Affected Persons

    In carrying out Part A of the Project:

    (a)   The Borrower shall take measures to avoid or minimize
          the acquisition of land or assets of villagers and to
          avoid the displacement of said villagers.

    (b)   Where the acquisition of land or assets or the
          displacement of villagers is unavoidable under a
          proposed Sub-project, the Borrower shall, before
          carrying out the works which would result in such
          acquisition or displacement, make available to such
          villagers, compensation in accordance with the
          Compensation Guidelines agreed between the Borrower and
          the Bank.

    (c)   In the event that two hundred (200) or more villagers
          are negatively affected by a Sub-Project, the Borrower
          shall:

          (i)  prepare and furnish to the Bank a resettlement
               plan satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance
               with the Compensation Guidelines; and

          (ii)  prior to approving the Sub-project, ensure that



                all Affected Persons shall be compensated in
                accordance with the provisions of said plan.

                                SCHEDULE 6

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
to seven million two hundred thousand dollars ($7,200,000)
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of theGeneral Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent
of twenty five million dollars ($25,000,000).

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such
               intervals as the Bank shall specify.

          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.

    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified



by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.

    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:

          (i)  was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
               or

          (ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished to
                the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
                notice from the Bank:

               (A)     provide such additional evidence as the
                       Bank may request; or

               (B)     deposit into the Special Account (or, if
                       the Bank shall so request, refund to the
                       Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
                       payment or the portion thereof not so
                       eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
                       shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
                       by the Bank into the Special Account shall
                       be made until the Borrower has provided
                       such evidence or made such deposit or
                       refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any



amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.