World Bank Document


                                                       CONFORMED COPY

                                                 LOAN NUMBER 4007 IND

                            Loan Agreement

           (Sulawesi Agricultural Area Development Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                         AND DEVELOPMENT

                          Dated June 17, 1996

                                                      Loan No. 4007 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated  June 17, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and

      WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:

            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
            no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures
            in the territories of any country which is not a member of
            the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



            from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
            payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is
            prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
            Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
            United Nations."

      (c)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
            which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
            3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "AARD" means the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development in the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture;

      (b)   "BANGDA" means the Directorate General for Regional
Development in the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs;

      (c)   "BAPPEDA I" means each of the Borrower’s Provincial
Development Planning Agencies;

      (d)   "BAPPEDA II" means each of the Borrower’s District
Development Planning Agencies;

      (e)   "DINAS" means each of the Borrower’s provincial and
district level government agencies;

      (f)   "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower’s fiscal year
commencing on April 1 and ending on March 31;

      (g)   "Grantee" means a village within a Project sub-district,
to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Grant;

      (h)   "Grants" means grants made or proposed to be made by the
Borrower, partly out of the proceeds of the Loan, to a Grantee for
on-lending to villagers and groups of villagers under Part A.2 of
the Project, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement;

      (i)   "Kabupaten Coordinating Committee" means the Committee,
composed of the BAPPEDA II Project manager, representatives from
the Office of the Secretary of the District Government, and
representatives from relevant DINAS, and responsible for approving
requests from Project Kecamatans for Grants and Local Community
Initiatives;

      (j)   "Local Community Initiatives" means activities selected
for financing under Part A.6 of the Project in accordance with the
criteria set out or referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement;

      (k)   "Project Kabupaten" means a district within a province,
selected for participation in the Project in agreement with the Bank;

      (l)   "Project Kecamatan" means a sub-district within a
Kabupaten, selected for participation in the Project in agreement
with the Bank;

      (m)   "Rupiah" and "Rp" means the Borrower’s currency; and

      (n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II



                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty six million eight hundred thousand dollars
($26,800,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement (i) for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project (other than Part A.2 thereof)
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall
so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of Grants made under
Part A.2 of the Project and in respect of which the withdrawal from
the Loan Account is requested.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including, in the case of a commercial bank, appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
                  a percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
                  of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                  such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
                  allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and
                  (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                  1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                  as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                  six months of a calendar year.



      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
            time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
            preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
            1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
            this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
            on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
            such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
            the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing
            on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar
            year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
agricultural, engineering, environmental and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achieve-
ment of the objectives of the Project; and

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower



responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than nine months after the end of each
                  such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                  have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                  receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
                  in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
                  this Section and that the report of such audit
                  contains a separate opinion by said auditors
                  as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                  during such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                  and internal controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                               ARTICLE V

                              Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4



            P. O. Box 1139
            Jakarta 10710
            Indonesia

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY                   45799 DJMLN-IA
                  Jakarta                       44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                       Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                      197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA),
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                  82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                  By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar, Ambassador
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Harold Messenger
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                              SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works:                                65%

    (a) Part A.5 of the        6,300,000
        Project

    (b) Part B. 1 and B.2        400,000
        of the Project

(2) Equipment                    200,000        100% of foreign
    (except vehicles)                           expenditures,
    and furniture                               100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory



                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3) Agricultural inputs        1,700,000        90%
    (except fertilizers),
    veterinary supplies, and
    tools under Parts A.1, A.4
    and C of the Project

(4) Breeding animals           2,400,000        90%
    and related medicines
    and tools

(5) Research and               1,000,000        90%
    development
    expenditures
    under Part C of
    the Project

(6) Grants under               4,000,000        70% of Grant
    Part A.2 of the Project                     amount disbursed

(7) Goods and works for        1,700,000        70%
    Local Community
    Initiatives

(8) Survey, design               400,000        90%
    and mapping

(9) Incremental                                 60% in FY 1997
    operating                                   and FY 1998;
    expenditures:                               50% in FY 1999
                                                and FY 2000; and
    (a) Parts A and B of       1,400,000        40% in FY 2001
        the Project                             and thereafter

    (b) Part C of the            300,000
        Project

(10) Training                    800,000        90%

(11) Consultants’                               90%
     services:

    (a) Parts A and B         3,500,000
        of the Project

    (b) Part C of               100,000
        the Project

(12) Unallocated              2,600,000
                              _________

         TOTAL               26,800,000
                             ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   the term "agricultural inputs" means expenditures for
inputs required for farming demonstration activities, seed and seedling



farms, and research;

      (d)   the term "incremental operating expenditures" means
expenditures on account of the Project by the Project management
units at the central and provincial levels, and the Project
implementation units at the district level, for travel, per diem,
allowances, supplies, and maintenance (but excluding salaries); and

      (e)   the term "research and development expenditures under
Part C of the Project" means expenditures for civil works for seed
gardens, agricultural research inputs, wages of field labor, and
salaries and travel expenses for contract (including university)
research staff, under Part C of the Project.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.

4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) goods
and works under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent
(including agricultural inputs, breeding animals, and Local Community
Initiatives), except for the first contract for goods and for works in
Sulawesi Tengah and Sulawesi Tenggara; (ii) grants, incremental operating
expenditures, research and development expenditures, training, and survey,
design and mapping expenditures; and (iii) contracts for the employment
of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each and
contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than $50,000
equivalent each.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
reducing the incidence of poverty in the provinces of Sulawesi Tengah
and Sulawesi Tenggara through the increase of rural incomes, the
promotion of equitable regional development, the promotion of
environmentally sustainable farming practices, and the strengthening
of local level institutions.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:  Agriculture-Based Area Development in Sulawesi Tengah and
         Sulawesi Tenggara

1.    Carrying out of a crop development program, including:

      (a)   improvement of agricultural practices on village irrigation
schemes through  the establishment of demonstration plots;

      (b)   introduction of dryland conservation farming technology
and provision of extension support to upland farmers, including
establishment of conservation farming demonstration plots;

      (c)   demonstration of rehabilitation of overgrown cashew and
cacao farms, including establishment of cacao rehabilitation
demonstration plots in Sulawesi Tengah and cacao and cashew
rehabilitation demonstration plots in Sulawesi Tenggara;

      (d)   establishment of small treecrop nurseries for provision
of improved treecrop seedlings to farmers, and support for the
improvement of seed multiplication for foodcrops; and

      (e)   upgrading of household garden agricultural technologies
through extension support and demonstration activities.

2.    Financing of : (i) the replication of agricultural programs and
technologies developed under Part A.1 and A.3 (b) of the Project, and
(ii) processing and marketing of agricultural products, through the



provision of Grants to villages for on-lending to villagers and groups
of villagers.

3.    Improvement of livestock management through:

      (a)   provision of breeding cattle and related tools and medicines
to farmers; and

      (b)   introduction and demonstration of intensive smallholder
livestock management systems, integrated with dryland crop development,
including development of forage crops.

4.    Improvement of  veterinary care at animal health clinics, including
provision of vaccines and other materials for the vaccination of chickens
against Newcastle disease.

5.    Improvement of village to market and village to village access
through construction of village roads, bridges, culverts, road sections
on village access roads, village docks and jetties; and marketing and
storage facilities.

6.    Carrying out of productive activities in local communities, that
are agriculture based, technically and economically feasible and
considered to be of a high priority by the relevant community.

Part B:  Project Management and Capacity Strengthening of Local
         Agricultural Support Services in Sulawesi Tengah and Sulawesi
         Tenggara

1.    Rehabilitation of about 25 rural extension centers and about four
animal health clinics, and construction or refurbishing of additional
space at selected rural extension centers for animal health services.

2.    Rehabilitation of Kabupaten-level seed multiplication centers for
production of stock seed.

3.    Provision of vehicles for field level staff and technical services
staff for the carrying out of Project management and supervision.

4.    Provision of training in management, organization, planning and
technical activities to provincial, Kabupaten and field level staff,
and leadership and organizational training to farmers and village
leaders.

5.    Mapping of Project Kecamatans to serve as a basis for improved
planning, implementation and monitoring and evaluation of development
activities.

Part C:  Farming Systems and Fisheries Research

      Carrying out of specific applied priority research programs in
support of regional agricultural development, based on local specific
needs, including post-harvest research and fisheries research, at the
Assessment Institutes for Agricultural Technology in Sulawesi Tengah
and Sulawesi Tenggara.

                           *       *      *

            The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.

                                  SCHEDULE 3

                             Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

January 15, 2002                                  520,000
July 15, 2002                                     540,000
January 15, 2003                                  555,000
July 15, 2003                                     575,000
January 15, 2004                                  595,000



July 15, 2004                                     615,000
January 15, 2005                                  640,000
July 15, 2005                                     660,000
January 15, 2006                                  685,000
July 15, 2006                                     710,000
January 15, 2007                                  735,000
July 15, 2007                                     760,000
January 15, 2008                                  785,000
July 15, 2008                                     810,000
January 15, 2009                                  840,000
July 15, 2009                                     870,000
January 15, 2010                                  900,000
July 15, 2010                                     930,000
January 15, 2011                                  965,000
July 15, 2011                                   1,000,000
January 15, 2012                                1,035,000
July 15, 2012                                   1,070,000
January 15, 2013                                1,105,000
July 15, 2013                                   1,145,000
January 15, 2014                                1,185,000
July 15, 2014                                   1,225,000
January 15, 2015                                1,270,000
July 15, 2015                                   1,315,000
January 15, 2016                                1,360,000
July 15, 2016                                   1,400,000
__________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
      as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
      Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                            Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

      Time of Prepayment                             Premium

                                          The interest rate (expressed as
                                          a percentage per annum) appli-
                                          cable to the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                          0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                          0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                            0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                     0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity

More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity

More than eighteen years before                    1.00
      maturity

                              SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works



Part A:     General

      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.

Part B:     Procurement Procedures

1.    National Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Schedule, goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

2.    National Shopping

      Agricultural inputs under Parts A.1, A.4 and C of the Project
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, breeding animals
estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000 equivalent, and inputs under
Part A.2 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,300,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

3.    Force Account

      Works under Part B.1 and B.2 of the Project which meet the
requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $100,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the
provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.

4.    Procurement of Small Works

      Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an amount not to exceed $10,800,000 equivalent, may be procured
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.

Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Procurement Planning

      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved
by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.    Prior Review

      With respect to each contract for goods and civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the first contract for
goods in Sulawesi Tengah and Sulawesi Tenggara estimated to cost less
than $100,000, and the first contract for civil works in Sulawesi Tengah
and Sulawesi Tenggara estimated to cost less than $100,000, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.



3.    Post Review

      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equiva-
lent or above.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall provide
Grants to Grantees in accordance with the procedures and on the condi-
tions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

2.    In carrying out Part A.3 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall
ensure that the second and third born calves of beneficiaries of cattle
distribution programs are redistributed among other interested farmers
or put up for sale to cover part of the operating costs of the livestock
support services.

3.    In carrying out Part A.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   not later than March 31, 1997, prepare a manual, acceptable
to the Bank, for the road construction program, and, promptly thereafter,
apply such manual in the village road construction program;

      (b)   ensure that funds provided for the village infrastructure
program shall not exceed $250,000 equivalent for each Project Kecamatan;
and

      (c)   ensure that priority is given to villages where needs are
demonstrated to be highest, the villagers are committed to actively
contribute to the implementation of the road works, and the local
government has agreed to maintain the completed works.

4.    In carrying out Part A.6 of the Project, the Borrower shall
approve Local Community Initiatives for financing under the Project, in
accordance with the criteria set out or referred to in Schedule 7 to
this Agreement.

5.    In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments, a detailed management and
operational plan for each rural extension center and each animal health



clinic to be rehabilitated, prior to the commencement of the relevant
works, such plan to include the following:

      (a)   adequate staffing levels;

      (b)   budgetary provisions covering appropriate annual operational
and maintenance funding requirements, for the effective operation of the
rehabilitated facility;

      (c)   delineation of area of coverage in terms of area and number
of farmers to be reached by the facility;

      (d)   for each rural extension center, identification of: (i)
leading sector covered by relevant DINAS, and (ii) proposed budgetary
arrangements to ensure that all participating sectors contribute to the
functioning of the center; and

      (e)   for each animal health center and one-room animal health
service, a program to ensure cost recovery and budgeted maintenance
of the facility.

6.    The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1997, prepare a
baseline survey to establish the existing socio-economic conditions in
Sulawesi Tengah and Sulawesi Tenggara.

7.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   provide the fertilizer required for the carrying out of the
Project in accordance with a schedule and timetable agreed with the
Bank; and

      (b)   provide the vehicles required for the carrying out of the
Project in accordance with a schedule and timetable agreed with the
Bank.

8.    The Borrower shall, not later than August 31, 1996, appoint a
Project manager and adequate support staff for the Project Management
Units in the Sulawesi Tengah and Sulawesi Tenggara BAPPEDA I and in
the BAPPEDA II in each Kabupaten in Sulawesi Tengah and Sulawesi Tenggara.

9.    The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project,
a Project Implementation Unit in each participating DINAS, with competent
staff in adequate numbers.

10.   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments:

      (a)    not later than October 31 in each year, commencing October
31, 1996, and until the completion of the Project, a coordinated work
program and cost estimates for the Project for the following Fiscal
Year; and

      (b)   not later than December 31 in each year, commencing December
31, 1996, and until the completion of the Project, a coordinated budget
proposal for the agreed provincial work programs under the Project.

11.  The Borrower shall, not later than August 31, 1996, employ, in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, the following consultants:

      (a)   a civil works specialist to assist in the carrying out of
Part A.5 of the Project;

      (b)   two financial management and accountant specialists to
assist in Project accounting and financial management in Sulawesi Tengah
and Sulawesi Tenggara BAPPEDA I, respectively; and

      (c)   a training specialist to assist in the organization of
training in Sulawesi Tengah and Sulawesi Tenggara.

12.   The Borrower shall:

      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to



monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;

      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about March 31, 1999, a report integrating
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof
during the period following such date; and

      (c)   review with the Bank, by May 31, 1999, or such later date as
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report
and the Bank views on the matter.

                             SCHEDULE 6

               Procedures and Conditions for Grants
                   under Part A.2 of the Project

1.    Each Grant shall be made by the Borrower only:

      (a)   to a Grantee which shall have established, to the satisfaction
of the Borrower, acting through the relevant Kabupaten Coordinating
Committee, on the basis of criteria and procedures, acceptable to the Bank,
that said Grantee has the organization, management, staffing and other
resources required for the establishment and efficient management of
revolving credit accounts; and

      (b)   to finance (i) the acquisition of agricultural and other
related inputs required for the adoption by villagers and groups of
villagers of agricultural programs and technologies developed under
Part A.1 of the Project, and (ii) the processing and marketing of
agricultural products, under proposals meeting criteria acceptable to
the Bank.

2.    Each Grant shall be made available by the Borrower to the Grantee
on an advance basis to cover the estimated cost of the activities under
the proposals to be financed under the Grant, provided, however, that the
Grantee shall promptly refund to the Borrower any amounts not required
for the actual carrying out of such activities.

3.    Each Grantee shall receive (i) a maximum of Rp 10,000,000 per year,
of which up to 40% may be used for processing and marketing of
agricultural products, and (ii) a maximum of Rp 25,000,000 under the
Project.

4.    Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain,
through a single written agreement with each of the Grantees, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including
the right, as applicable, to:

      (a)   require the Grantee to on-lend the Grant to farmers and groups
of farmers for a maximum period of 12 months and at an interest rate of at
least 15% calculated on the amount withdrawn and outstanding;

      (b)   require the Grantee to open and maintain a revolving credit
account in an institution providing deposit services;

      (c)   require the Grantee to ensure that villagers and group of
villagers shall carry out the activities with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound agricultural, financial and
technical standards and to maintain adequate records;

      (d)   require that the goods and services required for the
activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this



Agreement, and that such goods shall be used primarily in the carrying
out of the activities;

      (e)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and any relevant records and
documents;

      (f)   obtain all such information as the Borrower and the Bank
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the benefits to
be derived from the activities and the revolving credit accounts; and

      (g)   suspend or terminate the right of the Grantee to the use of
the proceeds of the Grant upon failure by such Grantee to perform itsobligations under 
its agreement with the Borrower providing for the Grant.

                           SCHEDULE 7

         Criteria for Selection of Local Community Initiatives

      The Project will support implementation of Local Community
Initiatives which are considered to be of a high priority by the relevant
community. Such Initiative shall be rural based (but shall exclude water
supply and sanitation), and shall result in direct benefits to such
community.

      Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall approve
Local Community Initiatives for financing under the Project in accordance
with the following provisions:

1.    The Kabupaten Coordinating Committee of each participating Kabupaten
shall be responsible for the approval of the initiatives to be financed.

2.    Criteria to be used in the selection of a proposal:

      (a)   the Initiative shall be other than the activities carried out
under Part A.1, A.3, A.4 and A.5 of the Project;

      (b)   the proposal shall be technically feasible, economically
justifiable and be a productive activity;

      (c)   maximum amount of financing per Initiative: Rp 10,000,000;

      (d)   maximum amount of financing per household: Rp 250,000;

      (e)   minimum number of households per Initiative: 10 (except for
sparsely populated areas where the minimum shall be 3 households); and

      (f)   contributions by households to include locally available
materials, unskilled labor, and, where required, land.

3.    Preference shall be given to proposals:

      (a)   that benefit the poorest segment of the community;

      (b)   that involve women’s and youth groups;

      (c)   that are assisted by local community organizations;

      (d)   that have the lowest risk of failure; or

      (e)   where the socio-economic impact is greatest.

4.    Procurement procedures shall be as set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 8

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through



(11) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  $5,000,000.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
                  shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                  of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                  each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
                  into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
                  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                  the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                  Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
                  as shall have been justified by said documents and
                  other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,



within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;

      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only  after and to the extent that
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.