World Bank Document


                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3981 IND

                               Loan Agreement

            (HIV, AIDS and STDs Prevention and Management Project)

                                  between

                            REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                     and

                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                 AND DEVELOPMENT

                              Dated March 29, 1996

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3981 IND

                               LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project; and

      WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                  ARTICLE I

                       General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the
Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "AIDS" means the acquired immune deficiency syndrome;

      (b)   "Grants" mean grants made or proposed to be made by

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



the Borrower, out of the proceeds of the Loan, to a Grantee for
training, instructional materials and outreach services to be
provided under Part A.4 of the Project to individuals whose
behavior makes them vulnerable to STDs and AIDS, in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

      (c)   "Grantee" means a non-governmental organization to
which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Grant;

      (d)   "HIV" means the human immunodeficiency virus;

      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (f)   "STD" means a sexually transmitted disease.

                                 ARTICLE II

                                  The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount equal to twenty four million eight hundred
thousand dollars ($24,800,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (i) for expenditures made (or, if
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
(other than Part A.4 thereof) described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
paid) by the Borrower on account of Grants made under Part A.4
of the Project and in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Loan Account is requested.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit
account in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of
a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30,
1999, or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
in arrears on  April 15 and October 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE III

                          Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to



the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and health practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower
shall:

      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed
to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the
Project; and

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                             Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such



                   expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

           (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted duringsuch
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.

                                  ARTICLE V

                                 Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                 ARTICLE VI

                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 1139
            Jakarta 10710, Indonesia

            Cable address:                       Telex:

                   FINMINISTRY                   45799 DJMLN-IA
                   Jakarta                       44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                       Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                     248423 (MCI)
                   Washington, D.C.               64145 (MCI)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day



and year first above written.

                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                   By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar, Ambassador
                                                  Authorized Representative

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ Nicholas Hope
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                      East Asia and Pacific

                                 SCHEDULE 1

                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Equipment                   2,200,000        100% of foreign
    (excluding vehicles)                         expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 65%
                                                 of  local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items
                                                 procured locally

(2) Reagents                    4,300,000        100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 65%
                                                 of  local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items
                                                 procured locally

(3) Instructional materials     2,500,000        70%

(4) Fellowships                 1,200,000        100%

(5) Training and
    workshops:

    (a)  NGOs                   5,600,000        100%

    (b)  Other                  1,400,000        30%

(6) Grants                        600,000        100% of Grant
                                                 amount disbursed



(7) Project management          2,100,000        100%

(8) Consultants’
    services:

    (a)  Part A of the            400,000        100%
         Project

    (b)  Part B of the            400,000        80%
         Project

    (c)  Studies and research   2,400,000        100%

(9) Unallocated                 1,700,000
                               ----------
         TOTAL                 24,800,000
                               ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "Project management" means expenditures by
the offices of the Project Directors and the Project Managers,
Project implementation units, the Program Management Unit for
HIV, AIDS and STDs Prevention and Management, and the AIDS
Commissions for administrative costs, including travel,
consumable materials, honoraria, and office supplies.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts costing less than
$200,000 equivalent; (ii) fellowships, training and workshops,
Grants and Project management; and (iii) contracts for the
employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000
equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals
valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.

                                 SCHEDULE 2

                         Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to develop (i)
institutional mechanisms and pilot interventions in the
Borrower’s provinces of Jakarta and Riau, and (ii) activities
at the center, aimed at reducing the transmission of STDs and
HIV and preparing for the extension of the pilot interventions
to other provinces.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Provincial Pilot Programs in Jakarta and Riau

1.    Carrying out of a program for changing of the behavior of
individuals as to AIDS and STDs related risks through:
provision of training in behavioral interventions relating to
HIV risks to district and local trainers, counselors and peer



group educators; carrying out of baseline surveys and needs
assessments; conducting focus group discussions and other forms
of message design and formative research; production and
distribution of educational and informational materials; and
provision of condoms.

2.    Improvement of  STD clinical service delivery through:
training of relevant staff in STD case management; production
of educational materials; upgrading of the health laboratory
system in Jakarta and transfusion centers in Riau as regards
STDs and HIV, including acquisition of laboratory equipment,
test kits, drugs, condoms and reagents; and dissemination of
infection control and waste disposal techniques.

3.    Expansion of the HIV and STD surveillance and of
monitoring and evaluation activities, including acquisition of
equipment and reagents.

4.    Provision of Grants to non-governmental organizations for
the financing of training, instructional materials and outreach
services to individuals at risk for STDs and AIDS.

Part B: Activities at the Central Level

1.    STD Service Delivery for Reduction of Incidence of STD

      (a)   Development and testing of procedures relating to (i)
the syndromic approach to STD case management at the clinical
level and through ante-natal service delivery, (ii) infection
control techniques, and (iii) appropriate disposal of infected
blood products and other materials.

      (b)   Preparation and production of training modules,
carrying out of research, provision of fellowships, training of
trainers, and provision of supplies, equipment and drugs.

2.    Surveillance

      Improvement of the effectiveness of surveillance systems
for HIV, AIDS and STDs, through: development of guidelines and
manuals, training of relevant staff, carrying out of study
tours and provision of fellowships, carrying out of workshops,
development of a data base, and provision of equipment and
supplies.

3.    Laboratory System

      Improvement of the national system of health laboratories
as regards HIV and STDs through the increase of the capability
for testing and diagnosis, training, provision of educational
materials, carrying out of workshops and seminars, development
of standard procedures and monitoring, provision of equipment
and reagents, and provision of training and quality assurance
programs to private laboratories.

4.    Behavior Change

      Improvement of the behavior change interventions through
design of prototypes for needs assessments, preparation and
pre-testing of health education materials, provision of
fellowships and training of trainers, carrying out of research,
and provision of capacity building to non-governmental
organizations.

5.    Preparation Areas

      Carrying out of needs assessments, baseline surveys, and
other preparatory activities in areas designated for possible
follow-up STD and HIV interventions.

                                    * * *



      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1999.

                                 SCHEDULE 3

                 Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions

A.    General Definitions

      For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have
the following meanings.

      (a) "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account in such Interest Period.

      (b) "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the
initial period, each period from and including an Interest
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest
Payment Date.

      (c) "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.

      (d) "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount,
the first day of the Interest Period next following the
Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.

B.    Interest

1.    The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into
Disbursed Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed
Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate based on a
floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a
fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph
2 of this Part B.

2.    (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each
Disbursed Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not
including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to
the applicable:

            (i)    LIBOR Base Rate; plus

            (ii)   LIBOR Total Spread.

      (b)   From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount
until final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed
Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:

            (i)    Fixed Base Rate; plus

            (ii)   Fixed Total Spread.

3.    For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following
terms have the following meanings.

      (a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in
which a Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value the
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the
Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such Interest
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
a percentage per annum.

      (b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period
in which each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:

            (i)    one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);



            (ii)   minus (or plus) the weighted average margin,
                   for such Interest Period, below (or above) the
                   London interbank offered rates, or other
                   reference rates, for six-month deposits, in
                   respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or
                   portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund
                   single currency loans or portions thereof made
                   by it that include such Disbursed Amount for
                   such Interest Period;

as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.

      (c)  "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount,
the equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-
month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for
such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest
rate based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the
repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

      (d)  "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:

            (i)    one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

            (ii)   minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on
                   the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
                   below (or above) the London interbank offered
                   rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
                   deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding
                   borrowings or portions thereof allocated to
                   fund single currency loans or portions thereof
                   made by it that include such Disbursed Amount;
                   plus

            (iii)  the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the
                   Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount;

as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.

4.    The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate,
LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread
applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the
determination thereof.

5.    Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this
Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other
than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts
of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6)
months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The new basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.

C.    Repayment

1.    Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C,
the Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in
semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October
15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for
such Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be
payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each
installment shall be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed



Amount.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part
C, if any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount
would, pursuant to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be
payable after October  15, 2011, the Borrower shall also pay on
said date the aggregate amount of all such installments.

3.    After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization
schedule for such Disbursed Amount.

                                 SCHEDULE 4

                    Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.   Procurement of Goods

Part A:     General

      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.

Part B:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

2.    Preference for domestically manufactured goods

      In the procurement of goods under contracts to be awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part
B, the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    National Competitive Bidding

      Equipment estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent
per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,700,000
equivalent, and printing and production services for
instructional materials, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and
3.4 of the Guidelines.

2.    National Shopping

      Equipment estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$1,000,000 equivalent, and printed materials up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Procurement Planning

      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall



have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.

2.    Prior Review

      With respect to (i) each contract for equipment and
reagents estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more,
and (ii) the first two contracts for goods in each of the two
Project provinces estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

3.    Post Review

      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, except the first
contract for training services for each of the two Project
provinces, or (b) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of
a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.

                                 SCHEDULE 5

                           Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank,
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof.

2.    The Borrower shall cause the Province of Jakarta and the
Province of Riau to each maintain until completion of the
Project:

      (a)   a provincial Project Director and district project
directors, with qualifications and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank;

      (b)   a provincial Project Manager, with qualifications and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and



      (c)   provincial and district Project implementation units
with qualified staff in adequate numbers and with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank.

3.    The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the
Project:

      (a)   a Project Director within its Ministry of Health with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, who shall be the
Director General of Communicable Diseases;

      (b)   a Project Manager within the Directorate General of
Communicable Diseases in the Ministry of Health, with
qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
and

      (c)   a Program Management Unit for HIV, AIDS and STDs
Prevention and Management, in the Ministry of Health, with
qualified staff in adequate numbers and with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.

4.    In carrying out Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower
shall make Grants in accordance with the procedures and on the
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

5.    The Borrower shall, not later than December 31 in each
year, commencing December 31, 1996, and until completion of the
Project, furnish to the Bank for approval the annual central
and provincial plans for the carrying out of training
activities and workshops and the provision of fellowships.

6.    The Borrower shall provide the vehicles required for the
carrying out of the Project in accordance with a schedule and
timetable agreed with the Bank.

                                 SCHEDULE 6

                    Procedures and Conditions for Grants
                        under Part A.4 of the Project

1.    Each Grant shall be made by the Borrower only:

      (a)   to a Grantee which shall have established, to the
satisfaction of the Borrower, acting through the Program
Management Unit for HIV, AIDS and STDs Prevention and
Management, on the basis of criteria and procedures, acceptable
to the Bank, that said Grantee: (i) has the organization,
management, staffing and other resources required for the
efficient carrying out of the services; and (ii) has prepared
an acceptable plan, including terms of reference, for the
carrying out of the services; and

      (b)   for services which are determined by the Borrower,
acting through the Program Management Unit for HIV, AIDS and
STDs Prevention and Management, on the basis of guidelines
acceptable to the Bank: (i) to be technically feasible and
cost-effective, and (ii) to have been designed in accordance
with appropriate health and educational standards.

2.    Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, through a written agreement with each of the Grantees,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank, including the right, as applicable, to:

      (a)   require the Grantee to carry out the services with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
financial, health, educational and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records;

      (b)   require that (i) the goods and services required and



to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, and (ii) such goods shall be used exclusively
in the carrying out of the services;

      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and any
relevant records and documents;

      (d)   obtain all such information as the Borrower and the
Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the benefits to be derived from the services; and

      (e)   suspend or terminate the right of the Grantee to the
use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Grantee to
perform its obligations under its agreement with the Borrower
providing for the Grant.

                                 SCHEDULE 7

                               Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent  to $500,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$4,800,000.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the  Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the  Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the  Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such
                   request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank



                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                   the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                   each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of
                   the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
                   and deposit into the Special Account such
                   amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                   as shall have been shown by said documents and
                   other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures. All
                   such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank
                   from the Loan Account under the respective
                   eligible Categories, and in the respective
                   equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                   justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall



be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.