World Bank Document


                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4008 IND

                              Loan Agreement

     (Kerinci-Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project)

                                 between

                          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                   and

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT

                           Dated June 17, 1996

                                                        Loan No. 4008 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and

      WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has requested assistance from the resources
of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund in the financing of
the Project, the Bank has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with Resolution No. 94-2 of the Executive Directors dated
May 24, 1994, establishing the GEF Trust Fund, and, by an agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank, acting as an
Implementing Agency of the GEF (the GEF Grant Agreement), GEF is agreeing
to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
ten million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,200,000)
(the GEF Grant); and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:

            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
            withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in
            the territories of any country which is not a member of the
            Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons
            or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or
            import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a
            decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under
            Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."

      (c)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
            any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
            with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s
            Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the follow-
ing additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the
execution of the Project, has or would have his/her (i) standard of
living, (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural land and grazing land) or any other fixed or
movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently, or
(iii) business, occupation, work, or place of residence or habitat,
adversely affected; and "Affected Persons" means collectively all
persons who qualify as an Affected Person;

      (b)   "AMDAL" means Analisis Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan, an
environmental impact assessment under the laws of the Borrower;

      (c)   "Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to selected villages for the
carrying out of sub-projects under Part B.1 (b) of the Project, and
"Grantee" means a village beneficiary of such Grant;

      (d)   "KSNP" means the Kerinci-Seblat National Park located in the
Borrower’s provinces of Bengkulu, Jambi, South Sumatra and West Sumatra;

      (e)   "Orang Rimba" means the traditional hunter-gatherers on the
island of Sumatra, called the people of the forest;

      (f)   "Project area" means the Kerinci-Seblat National Park and
surrounding areas;

      (g)   "Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan" means the
action plan for the carrying out of the resettlement and rehabilitation
of Affected Persons under the Project referred to in paragraph 9 (c) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (i)   "Sub-project" means a specific project to be carried out by
a village utilizing the proceeds of a Grant.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan



      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
nineteen million one hundred thousand dollars ($19,100,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including, in the case of a commercial bank, appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                  the date immediately preceding each date specified in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                  Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
                  of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                  such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
                  allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                  bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                  six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
            time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding



            Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
            of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
            amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
            calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest
            Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
            the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing
            on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
agricultural, ecological, engineering, environmental, and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the
objectives of the Project; and

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the



                  Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                  have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals.

                                   ARTICLE V

                              Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that:

            (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
                  right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
                  GEF Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or
                  terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
                  of the GEF Grant Agreement.

            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
                  the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, or
                  termination is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
                  are available to the Borrower from other sources on
                  terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
                  of the Borrower under this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the GEF Grant
Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent
to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement,
have been fulfilled.



      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 1139
            Jakarta 10710, Indonesia

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY                   45799 DJMLN-IA
                  Jakarta                       44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                       Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                      197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA),
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                  82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                  By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar, Ambassador
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Harold Messenger
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:



                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works under          4,200,000        80%
    Part B.1 (b) of the
    Project

(2) Equipment (except            600,000        100% of foreign
    vehicles), furniture,                       expenditures,
    and mapping materials                       100% of local
    under Parts B and C                         expenditures
    of the Project                              (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3) Agricultural inputs        1,000,000        80%
    (except fertilizers)
    and other inputs
    under Part B.1 (b)
    of the Project

(4) Training under             1,000,000        60%
    Parts B and C
    of the Project

(5) Extension and              3,700,000        80%
    planning activities
    under Parts B and
    C of the Project

(6) Surveys under                900,000        30%
    the Project

(7) Studies under                700,000        90%
    Parts A.4, A.5
    and B.5 of
    the Project

(8) Incremental operating        700,000        15%
    expenditures under
    Part B of the Project

(9) Consultants’               4,400,000        80%
    services under
    Parts B and C
    of the Project

(10) Unallocated               1,900,000
                               _________

         TOTAL                19,100,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   the term "Extension and planning activities" means expendi-
tures for wages of laborers under extension and planning activities,
materials (other than mapping materials), and staff honoraria and



travel; and

      (d)   the term "incremental operating expenditures" means salaries
of contract administrative support staff in the Project management units
in the Project Area.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.

4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) civil
works under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent, except for
the first five contracts for civil works under Part B.1 (b) of the
Project; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent,
except the first contract for goods under the Project; (iii) agricultural
and other inputs, training, extension and planning activities, and
incremental operating expenditures; and (iv) contracts for the employment
of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each, and
contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than $50,000
equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to secure
the biodiversity of KSNP and stop further habitat fragmentation, through:
(i) improvement of the protection and management of KSNP, including
involvement  of  local  communities; (ii) promotion of sustainable
management and maintenance of permanent forest cover in the buffer zone,
including logging concession areas; and (iii) development of an
integrated conservation and development project model to reconcile
conservation and regional and district development.

Part A: Park Management

1.    Preparation and implementation of a management and zoning plan for
KSNP, including:

      (a)   strengthening of KSNP protection, management, enforcement, and
participatory planning, through: strengthening of relevant local
government agencies, carrying out of extension activities and planning
activities, and infrastructure support, including provision of equipment
and furniture; and

      (b)   boundary rationalization activities, species inventory,
ecological monitoring, and socioeconomic and other research necessary
for KSNP and buffer zone planning and management, including provision
of related equipment.

2.    Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation to:

      (a)   monitor encroachment and poaching, the effectiveness of
enforcement measures, and other development impacts within KSNP
boundaries; and

      (b)   develop monitoring and performance indicators to assess the
status of KSNP, including boundary stability, habitat conditions, and
species survival and distribution.

3.    Provision of training in the improvement of skills in the relevant
fields of expertise for KSNP personnel, including management staff, field
staff and community extension workers.

4.    Carrying out of a study on the financing options for long-term
sustainable protected areas management, including the feasibility of the
establishment of a trust fund.

5.    Carrying out of a study to assess the potentials and constraints
on KSNP becoming an eco-tourism site.



Part B: Area and Village Development

1.    Improvement of land use planning and community resource management
in about 134 selected villages in the inter-action zone surrounding KSNP,
including villages adjoining, or within, logging concession areas
bordering KSNP, through:

      (a)   situational assessment; design, implementation and monitoring,
and review, evaluation and revision of design of village development
plans; and establishment of village conservation agreements; and

      (b)   provision of Grants to about 134 selected villages
surrounding KSNP to finance sub-projects for small-scale infrastructure,
agriculture intensification, scholarships for children and other training,
and business and enterprise activities.

2.    Strengthening central and provincial institutional capabilities for
analyzing the impact of rural development activities on KSNP, and
facilitating the assessment of Project effectiveness in enhancing social
and economic development for boundary communities through provision of
technical assistance and related training to staff.

3.    Provision of training for improvement of relevant skills for
Project coordinators, community organizers, extension workers, and land
use and regional planning staff, and provision of conservation awareness
information to boundary villages, government agencies and the community
at large.

4.    Improvement of the regulatory guidelines for inter-provincial
spatial planning and regional planning practices to assist the regional
economic development of the greater Kerinci-Seblat area to become more
conservation oriented, and preparation of a spatial plan covering the
areas having an impact on KSNP.

5.    Collection of baseline information on the Orang Rimba presence in
and utilization of KSNP and the buffer zone, including ecological and
socio-economic impact assessment.

Part C: Integrating Biodiversity in Forest Concession Management

1.    Strengthening of relevant institutions through training and
workshops, and establishment of appropriate policies for the effective
management of forested areas bordering KSNP to act as an effective
buffer zone for biodiversity, including carrying out of extension
activities.

2.    Identification, monitoring and protection of high biodiversity
sites of conservation value within the logging concessions bordering
KSNP, including ecological and biodiversity survey of logging
concessions areas, and carrying out of independent audits of forestry
logging and conservation practices in selected logging concessions
around KSNP, and provision of related equipment.

3.    Strengthening the Borrower’s management of logging concessions
through the application of the overall regional land use priorities
supported by the Project, including the spatial plan and the ecological
and biodiversity survey results, to such concession management.

4.    Establishment of a system for monitoring the integrity of KSNP
and the logging concession boundaries, including the effectiveness of
preserving biodiversity; and development of a capability to monitor
and evaluate forest management practices within logging concession
areas, including the success of conservation sites within logging
concession boundaries.

5.    Provision of training for staff of the Directorate General for
Forest Utilization and other relevant agencies of the Ministry of
Forestry, the provincial forestry departments, and relevant staff of
the logging concessions in the Project area, in biodiversity
conservation assessment and forest concession audits.



                               *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002.

                              SCHEDULE 3

                         Amortization Schedule

                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*

January 15, 2002                                  370,000
July 15, 2002                                     385,000
January 15, 2003                                  395,000
July 15, 2003                                     410,000
January 15, 2004                                  425,000
July 15, 2004                                     440,000
January 15, 2005                                  455,000
July 15, 2005                                     470,000
January 15, 2006                                  490,000
July 15, 2006                                     505,000
January 15, 2007                                  520,000
July 15, 2007                                     540,000
January 15, 2008                                  560,000
July 15, 2008                                     580,000
January 15, 2009                                  600,000
July 15, 2009                                     620,000
January 15, 2010                                  640,000
July 15, 2010                                     665,000
January 15, 2011                                  685,000
July 15, 2011                                     710,000
January 15, 2012                                  735,000
July 15, 2012                                     760,000
January 15, 2013                                  790,000
July 15, 2013                                     815,000
January 15, 2014                                  845,000
July 15, 2014                                     875,000
January 15, 2015                                  905,000
July 15, 2015                                     935,000
January 15, 2016                                  970,000
July 15, 2016                                   1,005,000
__________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
      as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
      Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                            Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                          The interest rate (expressed as a
                                          percentage per annum) applica-
                                          ble to the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                          0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                          0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                            0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity



More than eleven years but not                     0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity

More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity

More than eighteen years before                    1.00
      maturity

                             SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     General

      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.

Part B:     Procurement Procedures

1.    National Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in paragraphs 2 through 5 of this Part, goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

2.    National Shopping

      Goods, other than agricultural inputs, estimated to cost less than
$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$70,000 equivalent, and agricultural inputs, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

3.    Direct Contracting

      Satellite imagery equipment which must be procured from a particular
supplier because of limited source, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement,
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines.

4.    Procurement of Small Works

      Works under Part B.1 (b) of the Project, estimated to cost less
than $40,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-sum,
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic
form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience
and resources to complete the contract successfully.

5.    Community Participation

      Works required for Part B.1 (b) of the Project may be procured in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Procurement Planning

      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project



shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.    Prior Review

      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more and the first contract for goods under the
Project, and each contract for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more and the first five contracts for civil
works under Part B.1 (b) of the Project, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

3.    Post Review

      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;

      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about March 1, 1999, a report integrating
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and

      (c)   review with the Bank, by June 1, 1999, or such later date as
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the



efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report
and the Bank views on the matter.

2.    In carrying out Parts A and C of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   not later than March 31, 1997, complete the demarcation of
the KSNP boundary; and

      (b)   not later than September 30, 1997, complete the gazettement
of KSNP.

3.    In carrying out Parts A and C of the Project, the Borrower shall,
not later than March 31, 1997, review measures to improve biodiversity
management in logging concession areas adjacent to KSNP, including the
possibility of excluding logging activities in certain areas, and,
thereafter, cause the prompt implementation of any measures that are
found to be feasible.

4.    In carrying out Parts A and C of the Project, the Borrower shall
take all steps necessary to ensure thatexisting logging permits for
logging concessions in areas adjacent to KSNP are not renewed or extended
without the inclusion of a biodiversity management zone for the areas
adjacent to KSNP, such biodiversity management zone to remain in effect
until biodiversity surveys have been carried out for purposes of
identifying significant biodiversity sites to be protected. Thereafter,
the identified biodiversity sites would remain as biodiversity management
zones.

5.    In carrying out Part A of the Project the Borrower shall:

      (a)   take all measures necessary to ensure (i) that current mining
exploration permits in KSNP are not renewed or extended after their
expiration, and (ii) that, promptly upon the determination by the
Borrower’s Ministry of Mining that an area subject to a mining concession
lacks significant economic potential, the applicable mining concession is
terminated in accordance with applicable legislation;

      (b)   prior to the granting of exploration permits and exploitation
or production licenses in KSNP, furnish to the Bank for comments, the
full AMDAL evaluation by the Borrower’s Sectoral AMDAL Commission,
including the specifications of exploration, mining and extraction methods,
and any other mitigation measures required to minimize any adverse impact
on KSNP from the proposed activity;

      (c)   take all measures necessary to ensure that the exploration
permit and the exploitation or production license, is granted solely on
terms consistent with the findings and recommendations of the Borrower’s
Sectoral AMDAL Commission and the Bank’s comments on the AMDAL
evaluation; and

      (d)   thereafter, ensure that all recommended mitigation measures
are promptly and fully carried out.

6.    In carrying out Part B of the Project the Borrower shall:

      (a)   not later than September 30, 1998, prepare and carry out a
land zoning plan for the Project area, including recommendations for the
long-term management plan of KSNP, acceptable to the Bank; and

      (b)   not later than June 1, 1999, review the land zoning plan for
the Project area, and, promptly thereafter, carry out the recommendations
of such review, taking into account the comments of the Bank.

7.    In carrying out Part B.1 (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall
make Grants in accordance with the procedures and on the conditions set
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

8.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   take all measures necessary to ensure that no roads shall be
constructed or upgraded within KSNP until (i) the completion of the KSNP



management plan and the land zoning plan for the Project area referred
to in paragraph 6 of this Schedule, and (ii) an AMDAL shall have been
carried out; and

      (b)   ensure that any construction or upgrading shall be carried
out in a manner consistent with the recommendations of the AMDAL,
including recommendations for the carrying out of mitigating measures,
and the requirements of the management plan and land zoning plan
referred to in paragraph 6 of this Schedule.

9.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   until April 1, 1999, not cause or permit involuntary
resettlement of persons residing within KSNP;

      (b)   thereafter, confine any involuntary resettlement to that
required for purposes of protection of KSNP’s biodiversity; and

      (c)   where involuntary resettlement is to be carried out, (i)
furnish to the Bank for approval the Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Action Plan, prepared on the basis of Schedule 7 to this Agreement,
and (ii) thereafter, carry out the resettlement and rehabilitation of
Affected Persons in accordance with the Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Action Plan approved by the Bank.

10.   In carrying out Part B.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   not later than September 30, 1998, furnish to the Bank for
comments, the results of the baseline study and the impact assessment;

      (b)   based on the results of the study and of the assessment, and
taking into account the KSNP management plan, the land zoning plan for
the Project area, and the comments of the Bank on the baseline study and
impact assessment, prepare, not later than June 1, 1999, an action plan
designed to ensure that the Orang Rimba do not suffer adverse effects as
a result of the implementation of the above plans; and

      (c)   promptly thereafter, carry out such action plan in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.

11.   The Borrower shall provide the vehicles and the fertilizers
required under the Project in accordance with a schedule and timetable
agreed with the Bank.

                                SCHEDULE 6

                     Procedures and Conditions of Grants

      Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the following procedures
and conditions shall apply for purposes of paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

1.    The district head (Bupati) shall be responsible for the final
selection of sub-projects in his district, and shall take into account
the recommendations of the relevant sub-district head (Camat) and therelevant Village 
Community Resilience Institute (Lembaga Ketahanan
Masyarakat Desa).

2.    Each Grant shall be made only to a Grantee which shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower that:

      (a)   the sub-project for which the Grant is proposed to be made:

            (i)   is technically feasible, environmentally viable
                  (including conservation of biodiversity), and
                  economically justified; and, in the case of public
                  infrastructure, economically justified;

            (ii)  is estimated to cost $40,000 equivalent or less; and

            (iii) targets the most disadvantaged common interest groups;



      (b)   necessary funding to fully finance the sub-project has been
obtained, including the Grant and any voluntary contributions to be made
by the villagers;

      (c)   an implementation plan for the completion of such sub-project
has been prepared; and

      (d)   the Grant, when added to any prior Grant obtained, does not
exceed the maximum of $75,000 equivalent.

3.    Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by
written contract with each of the Grantees or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower, including the right, as applicable, to:

      (a)   require the Grantee to carry out and operate the sub-project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;

      (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this  Agreement, and (ii) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the sub-
project;

      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the sub-project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;

      (d)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the benefits
to be derived from the sub-project; and

      (e)   suspend or terminate the right of the Grantee to the use of
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Grantee to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.

                             SCHEDULE 7

    Terms of Reference for the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan

1.    Objectives

      (a)   Affected Persons shall be:

            (i)   compensated for their losses at full replacement cost
                  prior to the actual move;

            (ii)  assisted with the move and supported during the
                  transition period in the resettlement site; and

            (iii) assisted in their efforts to improve their former
                  living standards, income earning capacity, and
                  production levels, or a least to restore them.

      (b)   Affected Persons shall participate and be consulted in the
planning and the implementation of the resettlement through community
participation.

      (c)   Affected Persons shall be integrated socially and
economically into the host communities so that adverse impacts on host
communities are minimized.

      (d)   Compensation for land, housing, infrastructure, and other
assets shall be provided to the Affected Persons. Lack of legal title to
the land and other assets as well as usufruct or customary rights
thereto shall not be a ban to the provision of compensation.

      (e)   Compensation for land shall be provided in land of equivalent
potential productive purpose. Compensation for houses and other assets
shall be provided in cash at full replacement cost.



      (f)   Compensation for civic amenities, community grazing land and
other community assets shall be provided in equivalent assets.

2.    Content of Action Plan

      The Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan shall provide for:

      (a)   eligibility criteria for determining Affected Persons in
accordance with the definition set forth in Section 1.02 (a) of this
Agreement;

      (b)   entitlements for compensation and rehabilitation;

      (c)   organizational responsibilities;

      (d)   costs and budgets;

      (e)   community participation and integration with host populations;

      (f)   socioeconomic survey;

      (g)   legal framework of resettlement, including applicable legal
and administrative procedures;

      (h)   identification of alternative sites and of selected sites;

      (i)   valuation of and compensation for lost assets at replacement
cost in accordance with paragraph 1 (d), (e) and (f) of this Schedule;

      (j)   review of land tenure and transfer systems;

      (k)   provision of access to training, employment and credit for
Affected Persons;

      (l)   provision of adequate resources for shelter, infrastructure
and social services;

      (m)   environmental impact of resettlement on host communities and
environmental management;

      (n)   implementation schedule of resettlement, and monitoring and
evaluation of resettlement;

      (o)   grievance mechanisms to adequately address compensation issues
of Affected Persons;

      (p)   monitoring of the impact of the Resettlement and Rehabilita-
tion Action Plan by an independent agency; and

      (q)   reporting procedures to the Bank.

                             SCHEDULE 8

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $1,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the



Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$900,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                  specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                  of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                  each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
                  into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
                  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                  the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                  Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
                  as shall have been justified by said documents and
                  other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;

      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02



of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.