World Bank Document


                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3393 LSO

           (Lesotho Highlands Water Project (Phase 1A))

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

              LESOTHO HIGHLANDS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

                     Dated September 16, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3393 LSO

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and LESOTHO
HIGHLANDS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) Kingdom of Lesotho (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan; and

      (C)   the Borrower intends to secure financing from various
other sources in an aggregate amount approximately equivalent to one
billion five hundred million dollars ($1,500,000,000) to assist in
financing Parts A and C through E of the Project;

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;

      (b)   in Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      (c)   Section 6.02 is amended as follows:

            (i)    in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) by the deletion of
                   sub-paragraphs (ii), (iii) and (iv); and

           (ii)    by the deletion of sub-paragraph (d)

      (d)   Section 7.01 is amended as follows:

            (i)    by the deletion of sub-paragraphs (c) and (d);
                   and

      (e)   the term "external debt" in Section 9.03 (Negative
Pledge) is intepreted to also exclude all borrowings by the
Guarantor repayable in the currencies of the Republic of South
Africa, Swaziland and Namibia.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Guarantor
through an exchange of letters dated August 9, 1988, and October 31,
1988, and April 10, 1989, and June 29, 1989;

      (c)   "Treaty" means the Treaty between the Guarantor and the
Republic of South Africa on the Lesotho Highlands Water Project,
dated October 24, 1986, including all Protocols thereto;

      (d)   "LHDA" means the Lesotho Highlands Development Authority
established by the Guarantor on October 24, 1986, pursuant to the
Lesotho Highlands Development Authority Order, No. 23 of 1986;

      (e)   "JPTC" means the Joint Permanent Technical Commission,
established pursuant to Article 9 of the Treaty;

      (f)   "LHWP" means the Lesotho Highlands Water Project as
defined in the Treaty;

      (g)   "RSA" means the Republic of South Africa;

      (h)   "Trust Instrument" means the Trust Instrument to be



entered into between LHDA, the Bank, other financial institutions
and the Trustee;

      (i)   "Deed of Undertaking" means the Deed of Undertaking to
be entered into between RSA and the Trustee;

      (j)   "Trustee" means the Law Debenture Trust Corporation
p.l.c. and any replacement thereof or successor thereto under the
Trust Instrument;

      (k)   "Development Fund" means the fund to be established by
the Guarantor into which Royalty Payments due from RSA under the
Treaty shall be deposited to be used for development purposes;

      (l)   "Royalty Payments" means royalty payments as defined
under the Treaty;

      (m)   "Environmental Action Plan" means the environmental
action plan for the Project prepared by the Borrower and approved by
the JPTC; and

      (l)   "Phase 1A of the Project" means Sub-Phase 1A of LHWP.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred and ten million dollars ($110,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in deutsche marks a special deposit account in a
bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
the Association the amount required to repay on behalf of the
Guarantor the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower



shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A through F of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative and construction practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,



services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A through F of
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree
procurement of consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of sub-section (b) below.

      (b)   The Borrower shall employ consultants, to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, to assist it in carrying out the Project. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

      (c)   The Borrower shall, for purposes of ensuring the safety
of the dams, tunnels and related structures included in the Project,
employ panels of experts as referred to in Part D.2 of the Project,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to review the concept
of such dams, tunnels and structures and the adequacy of their
design, construction, operation and maintenance.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and construction practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.

      (b)   Without limitation to the generality of Section 4.01
(a), the Borrower shall consult with the Bank prior to making
changes to its senior staff appointments or its management
structure.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and construction practices.

      (b)   Without limitation to the generality of Section 4.02
(a), the Borrower shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank: (i) cause the dams, tunnels and structures constructed under
the Project to be periodically inspected by the panels of experts
referred to in Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, in accordance
with sound engineering practice, in order to determine whether there
are any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of the
same, which may endanger their safety; (ii) furnish to the Bank for
its review the report of the panels, together with the Borrower’s
own comments; and (iii) propose to the Bank appropriate arrangements
for the Bank’s review, no later than one year before the expected
completion of such structures, for their operation and maintenance.

      Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice, taking into account
all relevant circumstances.

      (b)   For purposes of assisting the Borrower in carrying out



paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall: (i) employ an insurance
expert or experts, adequately qualified and experienced, to make
recommendations on the type or types of insurance to be procured by
the Borrower; and (ii) furnish to the Bank the recommendations made
by such expert or experts.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   (if any) and expenses and related statements)
                   and the records and accounts for the Special
                   Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                   accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than four months after the
                   end of each such year (A) certified copies of
                   its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) reports of such audits by said
                   auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                   the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audits referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   reports of such audits contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their preparation,
                   can be relied upon to support the related
                   withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. The Borrower shall pay to the Guarantor, a
guarantee fee equivalent to ten percent (10%) of the interest rate
for each interest period on the principal amount of the Loan
outstanding from time to time, to be paid semiannually on the dates



set forth in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The Treaty shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to make it improbable that the
Project can be carried out or to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.

      (b)   The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the Borrower or for the suspension of its operations.

      (c)   The LHDA Order shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement.

      (d)   The Trust Instrument or Deed of Undertaking shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to meet its
debt service obligations under this Agreement.

      (e)   RSA: (i) shall have failed to make payment of principal
or interest or any other amount due to the Trustee when payable by
RSA, under the Deed of Undertaking; or (ii) shall have failed to
perform any other obligation under the Deed of Undertaking; or (iii)
any representation made by RSA in the Deed of Undertaking shall have
been incorrect in any material respect.

      (f)   The South African Reserve Bank shall have failed to
perform any obligation under the South African Reserve Bank Currency
Transfer Guarantee as defined in the Deed of Undertaking.

      (g)   An Event of Default (as defined in the Trust Instrument)
shall have occurred and be continuing.

      (h)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any credit or loan made to the
                         Borrower for financing of the Water
                         Transfer component of the Project shall
                         have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms of the Agreement concerned,
                         or

                   (B)   such credit or loan shall have become due
                         and payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

            (ii)   subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that (A) such sus-
                   pension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring was not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,



that any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f)
and (g) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and with
respect to the event specified in Section 6.01 (e) (i) and (ii)
shall continue for a period of thirty days.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   notification from the Trustee or relevant creditor or
agent bank on its behalf, that the Trustee or such creditors or
agent bank, has received notifications certifying satisfaction of
all initial documentary conditions precedent to the agreements for
the financing referred to in Recital (C) to this Agreement, other
than the effectiveness of this Agreement;

      (b)   Protocol IV to the Treaty has been signed, by the
Guarantor and RSA; and

      (c)   the Trust Instrument and Deed of Undertaking have been
signed.

      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Chief Executive of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Lesotho Highlands Development Authority
            P.O. Box 7332
            Maseru 100
            Lesotho

                                           Telex:

                                             4523
                                             LHDA LO

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.



                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                         LESOTHO HIGHLANDS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

                         By /s/ M. P. Phoofolo
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Consultants’              79,300,000        100% of foreign
    services and                                expenditures
    studies under
    Parts C through
    F of the Project

(2) Training under               400,000        100% of foreign
    Part D of the                               expenditures
    Project

(3) Refinancing                  750,000        Amount due pur-
    of Project                                  suant to Section
    Preparation                                 2.02 (c) of this
    Advance                                     Agreement

(4) Unallocated               29,550,000
                              __________

         TOTAL               110,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Guarantor, RSA, Swaziland or Namibia for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor, RSA, Swaziland or Namibia.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $11,000,000, may be
made in respect of Category (1) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1990.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project



      The objective of the Project is to establish the physical and
managerial capacity for Lesotho to earn export revenues by trans-
forming its principal natural resource - water -into an export
commodity.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Water Transfer

1.    Construction of a concrete arch type dam at Katse about 180
meters high, with an active reservoir storage capacity of about
1,500 million cubic meters, an intake structure connected to a
transfer tunnel and water discharge structures for subsequent phases
of LHWP.

2.    Construction of an about 45 kilometer long transfer tunnel
from the Katse reservior to the ’Muela Hydropower Project, with a
diameter between 4.3 and 5 meters and an average flow capacity of
about 30 cubic meters per second.

3.    Construction of an about 16 kilometer long delivery tunnel
from the ’Muela Hydropower Project to the border with RSA, with a
diameter between 3.5 and 5 meters and an average flow capacity of
about 30 cubic meters per second.

4.    Construction of about: (a) 100 kilometers of paved roads; (b)
100 kilometers of gravel roads providing access to Project sites;
(c) 5 bridges; and (d) infrastructure including work camps, staff
housing, extension of the electric power supply and telecommuni-
cation system to the Project sites.

5.    Improvement of border crossing facilities.

6.    Rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads used by
Project related traffic.

Part B:    Hydropower

      Construction of an underground power station with about 72 MW
installed capacity, about 60 kilometers of 132 kV double circuit
transmission line, a substation and an about 55 meter high concrete
gravity dam at ’Muela with an active storage capacity of about 4
million cubic meters.

Part C:     Engineering and Construction Supervision

      Construction supervision and detailed design of the civil
works covering the Katse dam, transfer tunnel, delivery tunnel,
infrastructure and hydropower facilities.

Part D:     Institutional Support for LHDA

1.    Institutional development and strengthening of LHDA in the
fields of engineering, finance, accounting, environment and human
resource development.

2.    Establishment of panels of experts to advise on dam safety and
environmental matters.

3.    Training of LHDA staff in engineering, finance, accounting,
environment and management.

4.    Construction skills training for Basotho.

Part E:     Environmental Protection and Rural Development

1.    Implementation of actions to protect and enhance vegetative
cover in the watershed above the Katse dam, to mitigate negative
impacts of the Project on flora, fauna and sites of historic or



cultural significance, and to protect and enhance water quality and
wetland ecology in the area immediately down stream of the dam.

2.    Implementation of a program of actions to compensate persons
affected by the Project for lost income and assets and to replace
lost access and other infrastructure in the Project area.

3.    Implementation of a program to restore productive capacity of
persons affected by the Project and to enable the exploitation of
new economic opportunities created by the Project.

Part F:    Studies

      Carrying out the following studies:

      (1)   a study of the financial and operational aspects of the
’Muela hydropower plant;

      (2)   an organization and manpower study;

      (3)   a management accounting study; and

      (4)   optimization and environment studies related to Phase 1B
of LHWP.

Part G:     Institution Support for the Guarantor

1.    Support for the Guarantor’s delegation to the JPTC.

2.    Construction, equipping, operation and maintenance of border
crossings in Project area.

Part H:     Development Fund

      Establishment and operation of a development fund for the
receipt of Royalty Payments accruing to the Guarantor.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1997.

                           *     *     *

      In addition and parallel to the Project activities under
Part A of the Project, the construction of a delivery tunnel from
the Lesotho border to the Axle River, including outfall structures,
access roads and corrective work on the Axle River, will be carried
out and financed by agencies of the Republic of South Africa
pursuant to the Treaty.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*

November 1, 1997                                 2,865,000
May 1, 1998                                      2,975,000
November 1, 1998                                 3,090,000
May 1, 1999                                      3,210,000
November 1, 1999                                 3,335,000
May 1, 2000                                      3,460,000
November 1, 2000                                 3,595,000
May 1, 2001                                      3,735,000
November 1, 2001                                 3,880,000
May 1, 2002                                      4,030,000
November 1, 2002                                 4,185,000
May 1, 2003                                      4,345,000
November 1, 2003                                 4,515,000
May 1, 2004                                      4,690,000
November 1, 2004                                 4,870,000



May 1, 2005                                      5,060,000
November 1, 2005                                 5,255,000
May 1, 2006                                      5,455,000
November 1, 2006                                 5,665,000
May 1, 2007                                      5,885,000
November 1, 2007                                 6,115,000
May 1, 2008                                      6,350,000
November 1, 2008                                 6,595,000
May 1, 2009                                      6,840,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall: (a) by June 30, 1992, carry out the study
referred to in Part F.1 of the Project in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank; (b) furnish the recommendations of
such study to the Bank for its review and comments; (c) com- mencing
October 1, 1992, implement the recommendations taking the Bank’s
comments into account; and (d) and thereafter agree with the Bank on
a set of financial performance targets to be met.

2.    The Borrower shall: (a) by January 31, 1994, carry out the
study referred to in Part F.2 of the Project, in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to review the adequacy of
its present organizational structure in line with the require- ments
of the operating phase of the Project, to determine staffing
requirements, to prepare staffing profiles and to outline an



appropriate training program; (b) furnish the recommendations of
said study to the Bank for its review and comments; and (c) by
October 31, 1994, commence implementation of the recommendations
taking the Bank’s comments into account.

3.    The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1994, carry out the
study referred to in Part F.3 of the Project in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank to determine an appro-
riate management accounting system; (b) furnish the recommendations
of said study to the Bank for its review and comments; and (c) com-
mence by January 31, 1995, implementation of the recommendations,
taking the Bank’s comments into account.

4.    The Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds of the loan are
utilized only for those contracts that have been formally approved
by JPTC.

5.    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1991, introduce a computer
based accounting and treasury system, satisfactory to the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower



                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.